Corporate Social  Responsibility Report  2019 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Introduction  3 
CSR Policy   Matrix  15 
Letter from the CSR Executive Committee Chairperson  4 
Letter from the CSR Committee Chairperson  5 
CSR Implementation Framework  6 
Sustainability at TSMC  7 
Awards, Recognitions and Ratings    8 
About TSMC  10 
Financial Performance  11 
Tax Policy   13 
Corporate Governance  16 
CSR Management    17 
Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication  20 
Sustainable Value Creation    31 
Carrying Out the UN Sustainable Development Goals  34 
Our Business 9 
Sustainable Governance 14 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Focuses and Progress 36 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Ethical Management 
Innovation and Service 
Responsible Supply Chain 
Green Manufacturing 
Ethics and Regulatory Compliance  38 
Innovation Management  44 
Product Quality  62 
Customer Service  72 
Supplier Sustainability Management  81 
Climate Change and Energy Management 95 
Water Management  111 
Waste Management  121 
Air Pollution Control  130 
About This Report  201 
Participation in Industry Associations and Non-pro t  Organizations                      204 
CSR Performance Summary  205 
GRI Standards Comparison Table  207 
Independent Third Party Assurance Statement  221 
Contact Information  222 
Appendix 200 
Talent Attraction and Retention  137 
Talent Development  148 
Human Rights  153 
Occupational Safety and Health  158 
The Drive for Common Good  174 
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  175 
TSMC Charity Foundation  185 
Inclusive Workplace 
Common Good 
Innovation drives us forward at TSMC. It beholds the expectations of our stakeholders. As we pursue our dreams with courage and resilience, TSMC continues to empower development in 5G, Arti cial Intelligence, and beyond, and to use cutting-edge technology, to paint an intelligent and connected future in which human lives are made more convenient, comfortable, and safe. 
As members of the global community, let us join hands as one to map out a sustainable blueprint for the common good of our planet. 
Innovation Paints   a Future of Sustainability 
We pride ourselves as a driver of a sustainable future. We galvanize each and every bit of positive energy to unleash innovation that can bring positive change that can be shared by all in a brilliant world. 
As a company pursues pro tability and growth, it must also  
be concerned with the environment, society, and corporate  
governance. Since TSMC s establishment, the Company  
has not only strived for the highest achievements in its core  
business of dedicated IC foundry services, but has dedicated  
itself to corporate governance, and actively developed positive  
relationships with all stakeholders, including employees,  
shareholders, customers, suppliers, and society to ful ll its  
responsibility as a corporate citizen and pursue a sustainable  
future. For TSMC, the  rst step in corporate social responsibility  
is to carry out our core values demonstrate our business  
principles through our actions, and for every colleague to  
continue enhancing our three competitive advantages of  
 Technology Leadership, Manufacturing Excellence, and  
Customer Trust . In this way, we drive beautiful changes in  
society and the environment through our leadership position in  
the industry. 
Over the years, TSMC has held to its vision of uplifting society,  
and applied technology and innovation to help humanity  
overcome many challenges. The Company has taken  
numerous concrete actions and actively given back to society  
in a spirit of gratitude, and we have become a benchmark for  
the industry. As we strive to do our best in corporate social  
responsibility, we are also encouraging our employees to  
make innovative breakthroughs in how they think about  
things, and how they do things. At the same time, we are  
Letter from the CSR   Executive Committee Chairperson 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
nurturing our empathy and broadening our horizons. I hope  
that we can have greater social participation from TSMC  
employees based on our professionalism, to develop more  
holistically as individuals. 
Because of this, we established the Corporate Social  
Responsibility Executive Committee in 2019, teamed with  
senior management in many di erent functions to set the  
Company s future CSR strategy. It is acting in tandem with the  
CSR Committee to drive CSR actions and cultivate CSR culture.  
We had taken a fresh look at our core abilities, UN SDGs, as  
well as the areas where our two Foundations can make a  
di erence and encouraging employees to use professional  
knowledge and passion to help the Company ful ll its social  
responsibility and give back to society. With that, we also  
revisited our 2030 goals with concrete measures to ful ll our  
commitment.  
I would like to thank every one of our colleagues diligently  
doing each thing right in every corner of our company. In  
our CSR report, you will see how everyone took action for a  
sustainable future in the past year from various aspects. I hope  
that everyone in TSMC will take it as personal responsibility to  
make a full commitment. On the road towards sustainability  
and the common good, let us continue to drive positive  
changes together. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Chairman and Corporate Social Responsibility  
Executive Committee Chairperson 
Each year, TSMC renews its commitment to society and the  
environment through the CSR committee. We insist on an  
innovative business model, and in 2019, we helped customers  
innovate 10,761 products using 272 di erent process technologies,  
o ering more energy-e cient technology applications to deliver a  
safer and more convenient world to humanity. This year, we made  
an even greater breakthrough, and extended our sustainable  
development goals to 2030. With our core values, we hope to align  
ourselves with the United Nations  Sustainable Development  
Goals and work together to overcome future challenges. 
We have also committed NT  19.66 billion toward environmental  
protection and successfully implemented 763 innovative programs  
in energy conservation, water conservation, and waste reduction.  
Our overseas facilities have once again achieved zero emissions,  
realizing a green and low-carbon business model. In addition, we  
continue to evaluate Environmental Pro t   Loss (EP L) enabling  
us to monetize the environmental impact of manufacturing,  
and make external costs part of our new mindset for sustainable  
management. In 2019, TSMC achieved the highest score ever  
recorded by the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) and became  
the  rst semiconductor company to receive platinum certi cation.  
In terms of renewable energy, we have established a task force to  
work closely with the government, accelerate development, and  
help slow down climate change. 
Letter from the  CSR Committee  Chairperson 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Sustainability is fundamental to TSMC s operations and we  
are equally committed to the long-term success of our supply  
chain. In 2019, all tier 1 suppliers completed self-assessments on  
sustainability, and all high-risk suppliers received on-site audits.  
We have also continued to require more from our key suppliers,  
requesting that they work closely with their upstream suppliers  
to create value in the semiconductor supply chain. What is also  
worth mentioning is that we are also employing digital technology  
for supply chain management and expanding our existing  
management structure. In order to raise the bar for supply chain  
sustainability, we are creating a  Supply Chain 360  system that  
can track data, integrate an online learning platform, and o er  
reporting channels for suppliers. 
TSMC issued its  rst  Diversity and Inclusion at TSMC  in 2019.  
We hope to build an innovative and inclusive workplace where  
our colleagues can work safely, make the best use of their talents,  
and grow together with TSMC. We have also encouraged our  
employees to deepen their participation in society. Our colleagues  
have served 17,593 times and devoted 83,797 hours in volunteer  
service this year. Through the TSMC Foundation and TSMC Charity  
Foundation, we are advocating for the disadvantaged,  lial  
piety, education in underserved areas, youth, arts   culture, and  
environmental protection through a diverse range of programs.  
We hope to light all corners of society by harnessing the power of  
making  1 1  greater than 2. 
TSMC believes that a company exists to bring positive changes to  
our world. We know that the future is  lled with challenges, but  
we will always stay true the cornerstones of TSMC   Integrity, and  
Responsible Operations. With each and every TSMC employee  
steadfast at their roles, we believe that beautiful changes can  
continue to happen. It is a beautiful virtuous cycle that will  
continue to energize TSMC s march towards sustainability. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Senior Vice President and Corporate Social  
Responsibility Committee Chairperson 
Strengthening  Environmental Protection 
Earning Stakeholders   Trust to Create Shared  Values 
CSR Implementation Framework 
To Uplift Society 
Caring for the  Disadvantaged 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Corporate Social  Responsibility  Executive   Committee 
Corporate Social  Responsibility  Committee 
Governance 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Diverse   Inclusive  Workplace 
Green   Manufacturing 
Talent   Development 
Caring for the  Underserved 
Responsible   Supply Chain 
Power to Change  Society 
A Practitioner of  Green Power 
A Trustworthy  Company 
A Responsible  Purchaser 
An Innovation  Enabler 
An Attractive  Employer 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Innovation Research  Management 
Human Resource Management 
Customer Relationship Management 
Supply Chain Management 
Environment Management 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Integrity   Leadership 
Shareholders    Investors 
Government 
Suppliers   Contractors 
Stakeholders 
Environmental Protection 
Business Standards 
Economic Growth 
Legal Compliance 
Common Good 
Balanced Life 
Values Created 
Sustainability  at TSMC 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Continued to expand R D, 2019  
expenditures in R D totaled  
USD 2.96 billion, equivalent to  
8.5% of the year s total revenue 
Total shareholder return 
World s largest dedicated  
semiconductor foundry 
Led the industry in volume  
production of N7  process  
technology with EUV  
lithography technology 
8.6 Trillion (NT )  Market capitalization 
2019 reduction rate of volatile  
organic compounds reached  
97.8%, exceeding 95% for  ve  
consecutive years 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Leading semiconductor manufacturer  
in Taiwan, with 910 GWh of Renewable  
Energy, Renewable Energy Certi cates  
(REC),   Carbon Credit purchased 
ENVIRONMENT 
Most LEED certi ed  
semiconductor industry  
architecture area in the world 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
The  rst semiconductor company  
to receive carbon credits under  
the TM002 Method  
exceeding   % for  ve consecutive years   
The percentage of waste sent to land lls has  
been less than 1% for ten years in a row 
2019 waste recycling rate reached 96%,  
584,830,008 (NT )  Total investments in social  
participation  
In 2019, annual compensation for newly  
graduated engineers employed by  
TSMC in Taiwan with a master s degree  
was equivalent to around 31 months of   
salary, exceeding industry standards 
Dedicated to volunteer service 
83,797 Hours 
Number of bene ciaries  
of social engagement 
In 2019, the average monthly salary  
of direct labor in TSMC s facilities in  
Taiwan was three times higher than the  
minimum wage in Taiwan 
Dow Jones Sustainability  Indices (DJSI) Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index 
MSCI ESG Indexes 
Corporate Knights Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 
Taiwan Institute of  Sustainable Energy 
Institutional Investor  Magazine 
Cheers  Top 10 Most Admired Companies to Young Generations 
Taiwan Stock Exchange Top 5% in Corporate Governance Evaluation of Listed Companies for the  fth  consecutive year 
Nikkei Asian Review Asia300 Power Performers 
FORTUNE Fortune Global 500 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Global Top 100 Companies by market capitalization for the seventh consecutive year 
Awards, Recognitions and Ratings 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
MSCI ESG Research   AA Ratings 
MSCI ACWI SRI Index component 
The Most Prestigious Sustainability Awards   Top Ten Domestic Corporates 
Taiwan Top 50 Corporate Responsibility Report Awards   IT   IC Manufacturing   Platinum Award 
Sustainable Water Management Awards   
Climate Leadership Awards  
Circular Economy Leadership Awards 
Most Honored Company (Technology   Semiconductors)  
Best ESG   SRI Metrics (Technology   Semiconductor) - First Place 
Best Corporate Governance (Technology   Semiconductor)   First Place  
Best CEO (Technology   Semiconductor) - First Place 
Best CFO (Technology   Semiconductor) - First Place 
Best Investor Relations Program (Technology   Semiconductor) - First  Place 
Best Investor Relations Professional (Technology   Semiconductor) - First Place 
Global 2000 
Asia's Best over a Billion  
Top 100 Digital Companies  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Dow Jones Sustainability World  Index for the 19 th Consecutive Year 
"Prime" Rated by ISS ESG Corporate Rating 
World's Most Admired  Companies 
Corporate Social Responsibility Award   Large Cap  First Place 
FTSE4Good Emerging Index Component   FTSE4Good TIP Taiwan ESG Index Component 
MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders  Index Component 
For more details of 2019 CSR awards and recognition,  please refer to TSMC s 2019 Annual Report 
Forbes  World's Best  Employers 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Our Business 
    About TSMC 
    Financial Performance 
    Tax Policy  
Asia Paci c  excluding Japan and  Mainland China  
Mainland  China  
Headquarters  Hsinchu Science  Park, Taiwan 
TSMC s four core values of Integrity, Commitment, Innovation, and Customer Trust remain as the  
corestone of its company culture. As world s largest semiconductor foundry and a trusted technology  
and capacity provider, TSMC always strives to seek greater achievements in its scope of business  
and to ful ll its corporate social responsibilities for creating a sustainable future when facing the  
challenges of global climate change and ever-changing global landscapes. TSMC performed better  
than ever in 2019, netting a consolidated revenue of NT 1,069 billion and setting a record of year-on- 
year growth in revenue for 10 consecutive years. As the  rst and largest dedicated semiconductor  
foundry, TSMC is committed to o ering cutting-edge and comprehensive semiconduction  
applications solutions. The Company believes in taking responsibility and will continue to move  
forward with employees, shareholders  investors, customers, and suppliers to further advance and  
create sustainable value in the economy, environment, and society. 
Revenue Percentage by Customer  Location Revenue Percentage by Product  Platform 
Japan Europe, Middle  East, and Africa  
About TSMC 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
North America  60% 
Founded in  1987 
Internet of  Things (IoT)  
Automotive  
Digital consumer  electronics  Others 
Smartphone 49% High   performance  computing   (HPC)  30% 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Number of Employees  51,297 
Net income  
10 consecutive years of year- on-year growth in revenue 
345.26 Billion (NT ) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Annual capacity owned and  managed by TSMC and its  subsidiaries exceeded 12 million  12-inch equivalent wafers. 
Market share of the total foundry  industry 
7nm (N7)   7nm  (N7 ) process  technologies accounted for 27% of  total wafer sales revenue in 2019 
 12 Million Wafer 
TSMC has fabrication plants, subsidiaries or o ces  throughout Taiwan, North America, Europe, Japan,  Mainland China, South Korea, and other countries,  allowing it to provide real-time business and technology  services to its customers around the world. 
Manufactured 10,761 di erent  products for 499 customers using  272 types of process technologies 
The world s largest capacity  provider for logic ICs 
499 Customers 
Advanced processes including  16nm   below accounted for 50%  of revenue in 2019 , compared to  41% in 2018 
Good  nancial performance is the key to corporate sustainability. TSMC pursues good  nancial performance  
mainly through revenue growth and consistent improvement in pro tability to create greater economic value for its  
stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, government, society, and others. To help  
investors better understand TSMC s long-term investment value, TSMC set clear strategic  nancial objectives: (1)  
average return on equity (ROE) to be at least 20% across cycles  (2) compound annual growth rate of net income to  
be between 5% and 10% for the years 2015 through 2020.   
Four Strategies to Increase Long-term  Investment Value 
Maintain Trusting Relationships with Customers 
Financial Performance 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Maintain or Improve Pro tability and Investment Returns 
Continue to Invest in Process Technologies and  Capacity 
Pursue Revenue and Market Share  Growth 
In 2019, TSMC s ROE reached 20.9%  revenue growth  
calculated in NT dollars reached 3.7%, while net  
income decreased 1.7%. Net income decreased in  
2019 mainly as the Company s capacity utilization was  
impacted by (1) trade tensions between countries,  
(2) rising global macroeconomic uncertainties, and  
(3) inventory adjustments in the semiconductor  
supply chain. Meanwhile, the Company witnessed an  
acceleration of the deployment of 5G networks and  
smartphones in several major markets around the  
world. The acceleration will trigger a faster worldwide  
penetration of 5G smartphones with higher silicon  
content and drive strong 5G-related and HPC demand  
for TSMC s advanced technologies in the next several  
years. Therefore, the Company still expects to achieve  
its strategic  nancial objectives in 2020. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Financial Performance 
Revenue Operating Income ROE 
Standard   Poor s (S P) Ratings Aa3 
26% 24% 22% 21% 22% 
Moody s Ratings twAAA 
Taiwan Ratings 
Unit: NT  billion 
Market Capitalization 
Supported by the Company s strengthening industry position, growth potential and solid operating performance, TSMC s  
share price, adjusted for cash dividends, increased 53.9% in 2019, marking 11 consecutive years of annual growth. Since the  
Company went public in 1994, TSMC has been pro table every year and TSMC s market capitalization has been growing  
steadily. As of December 31, 2019, TSMC s market capitalization reached NT 8.6 trillion, or US 288 billion. 
TSMC s solid  nancial performance enables the Company to distribute pro ts to shareholders in the form of cash dividends.  
From 2004 to 2019, TSMC has paid out nearly NT 1.7 trillion, or US 53.6 billion, in cash dividends.  
In the future, TSMC intends to maintain a sustainable quarterly cash dividend, and to distribute the cash dividend each year  
at a level not lower than the year before.  
In June 2019, TSMC held an annual shareholders  meeting (AGM) to approve the Board s proposed NT 8 cash dividend  
per share for full-year 2018 and the revision of the Articles of Incorporation to adopt quarterly dividends. Under the  
authorization of the AGM, the Board also approved a NT 2 cash dividend per share for  rst quarter 2019. Therefore, TSMC s  
shareholders received a total of NT 10 per share in cash dividends in 2019. 
2011 2001 2010 2000 2009 1999 2008 1998 2007 1997 2006 1996 2005 1995 2004 1994 2015 2017 2013 2003 2012 2002 2016 2019 2014 2018 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: NT  trillion 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In August 2019, the Board further raised cash dividend to NT 2.5 cash dividend per share for second quarter 2019 pro t  
distribution, which was paid in January 2020. The Company expects TSMC s shareholders to receive no less than NT 2.5 per  
share per quarter in 2020, or no less than NT 10 per share in total annual cash dividends. 
Cash Dividend 
Total Dividend Paid Cash Dividend per Share (NT ) 
10-Year Averaged ROE   (2010-2019) 
Total Shareholder Return in 2019 1.7Trillion (NT ) 
2.5 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 
10-Year Net Income CAGR   (2010-2019) 
Cumulative Cash Dividends from  
2004 to 2019 
A complete dividend history can be found on TSMC s website  
8.6 Trillion (NT ) 
Market Capitalization at the End  of 2019 
10Per Share (NT ) 
Total Cash Dividend Payments in  
Unit: NT  billion 
Tax Risk Management and E ective  Tax Rate Eight Commitments 
TSMC supports tax policies and incentives that encourage enterprise innovation and foster economic growth.  The  
Company aims for its tax approach and information to be transparent and sustainable in the long term. 
 Act at all times in compliance with all applicable  laws and regulations. 
 Inter-company transactions are based on the arm's  length principle, in compliance with internationally  accepted transfer pricing guidance published by  the OECD. 
 Be transparent in  nancial reporting.  Disclosures  are made in accordance with applicable regulations  and reporting requirements.  
 Do not use tax havens or tax structures whose sole  purpose is for tax avoidance. 
 Do not transfer value created to low-tax  jurisdictions. 
 Develop strong, mutually respectful relationships  with tax authorities based on transparency and  trust. 
 Always consider tax as part of major business  decisions. 
 Analyze the operating environment and assess tax  risk through corporate management mechanism. 
Tax Policy 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 TSMC's effective tax rate in 2019 was 11.5%,  lower than 11.7% in 2018, mainly due to lower  surtax imposed on unappropriated earnings that  primarily resulted from the reduced statutory  rate of surtax from 10% to 5%. Besides, the  effective tax rate in 2019 was lower than the  R.O.C. statutory corporate income tax rate of  20%, due primarily to a five-year tax exemption  for capital investments made in previous years,  and tax credit for research and development  expenditures according to regulations under the  R.O.C. Statute for Upgrading Industries and the  Statute for Industrial Innovation.  
 TSMC is subject to tax laws and regulations in  various jurisdictions, in which it operates or  conducts business. Any unfavorable changes of  tax laws and regulations in these jurisdictions  could increase the Company's effective tax rate  and have an adverse effect on its operating  results. TSMC establishes an enterprise risk  management (ERM) program to manage the  tax risks. For more details on risk management,  please refer to "Risk Management" section in  TSMC's 2019 Annual Report. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Asia (excluding R.O.C.) 3.4% North America  1.4% 
Taiwan   R.O.C.   95.1% 
2019 Tax Breakdown 58.7 Billion (NT ) 
Income Tax Paid   52.0 Billion (NT ) 
Pro t Before Tax   389.8 Billion (NT ) 
Note: TSMC categorizes its pro t before tax and taxes paid geographically based on the  country in which TSMC and subsidiaries are located 
Taiwan R.O.C. North America Asia (exclude R.O.C.) Others 
58.7 Billion (NT ) 58.7 Billion (NT ) 
Others  0.1% 
Corporate  Income Tax 88.6% 
Labor and Health  Insurance, Social  Security 9.6% 
Others   1.8%  
0.6% 3.1% 1.5% 
In 2019, TSMC s total tax payments on  cash basis worldwide were NT 58.7  billion 
In 2019, over 90% of TSMC s revenue  and pro t before tax were generated  from its business operations in Taiwan.  Meanwhile, over 90% of its tax payments  were also made to the Taiwan R.O.C.  government 
Based on data provided by  Bloomberg  Professional,  TSMC was the largest  corporate income taxpayer among all  public listed companies in Taiwan in 2019 
TSMC s 2019 income tax payment  in Taiwan represented 7.8% of total  corporate income taxes collected by the  R.O.C. government 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Sustainable  Governance 
    Corporate Social Responsibility  Policy   Matrix  
    Corporate Governance 
    CSR Management 
    Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder  Communication 
    Sustainable Value Creation 
    Carry Out the UN Sustainable  Development Goals 
Since its establishment, TSMC has not only strived for the highest achievements  
in its core business of dedicated IC foundry services but has also actively  
developed positive relationships with all stakeholders including employees,  
shareholders, customers, suppliers, and society to ful ll its responsibility as a  
corporate citizen and pursue a sustainable future. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Matrix 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy   Matrix 
Strengthening  Environmental  Protection 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Acting with  Integrity 
Our Missions 
To Uplift Society 
Our Vision 
Caring for the  Disadvantaged 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility Policy  is the top guiding principle for our sustainable development. The  CSR Matrix  set by TSMC s Founder, Dr. Morris  
Chang clearly de nes the scope of TSMC s corporate social responsibility. The horizontal axis shows the seven areas where TSMC aims to set an example:  
morality, business ethics, economy, rule of law, sustainability, work   life balance and happiness, and philanthropy. On the vertical axis are actions that TSMC has  
taken to ful ll its responsibilities. 
TSMC Education and Culture  Foundation 
Law Compliance  
Anti-corruption, Anti-bribery,   Anti-cronyism 
Environmental Protection, Climate  Control, Energy Conservation 
Corporate Governance 
Provide Well-paying Jobs 
Good Shareholder Return 
Employees' Work-Life Balance 
Encourage Innovation  
Good Work Environment 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
       Society       TSMC Morality   Business Ethics  Economy   Rule of Law   Sustainability  Work   Life Balance  Happiness 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Philanthropy   
Note: In addition to all  ve Independent Directors, the Board  appointed Mr. Yancey Hai (currently Chairman of Delta  Electronics Inc.) as a member of the Compensation  Committee on February 11, 2020. 
Governance Structure 
Board of Directors and Committees 
    Supervise 
     Evaluate the management's  performance   appoint and  dismiss o cers 
     Resolve the important,  concrete matters 
     Provide guidance to the  management team 
Inheriting the spirit of TSMC s Founder, Dr. Morris Chang s philosophy on corporate governance, under the  
leadership of Chairman Dr. Mark Liu and CEO   Vice Chairman Dr. C.C. Wei, TSMC s Board of Directors takes a  
serious and forthright approach to its duties and is a dedicated, competent and independent Board. 
Four Board Responsibilities 
Corporate  Governance 
Audit Committee 
Compensation  Committee 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Executive O cers 
Board of Directors 
9 Members Audit  Committee 
Shareholders'  Meeting 
Independent  Directors 100% 
Independent Directors 
TSMC advocates and acts upon the principles of operational transparency and respect for shareholder rights. We believe that the basis for successful corporate governance is a  
sound and effective Board of Directors. In line with this principle, the TSMC Board delegates various responsibilities and authority to two Board Committees, the Audit Committee  
and the Compensation Committee. Each Committee s chairperson regularly reports to the Board on the activities and actions of the relevant committee. The Board of Directors  
plays the role to oversee and provide guidance to the Company s comprehensive sustainable management strategies. TSMC established the Corporate Social Responsibility  
Executive Committee in 2019. TSMC s Chairman chairs the CSR Executive Committee, and the Chairperson of the CSR Committee serves as Executive Secretary. The Chairperson of  
the CSR Committee reports annually to the Board of Directors on implementation results of the prior year and the future work plan. 
Great breadth of experience as  world-class business leaders  or professionals 
 50%        (5 Members) 
TSMC's Board of  Directors 
Corporate Governance O cer Internal Audit 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Female Directors 
Compensation  Committee 
Independent  Members  Note 100% 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Diversity on Board 
TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group  of professionals from di erent backgrounds in  industries, academia, law, etc. These professionals  include citizens from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S.  with world-class business operating experience, two  of whom are female. 
Corporate Governance O cer 
In 2019, the Board of Directors appointed Ms. Sylvia Fang  , the Vice President of Legal and General Counsel, as the  Corporate Governance O cer responsible for corporate  governance matters, including handling of matters  relating to Board, Audit Committee, Compensation  Committee and Shareholders' meetings in compliance  with law, assistance in onboarding and continuing  education of directors, provision of information required  for performance of duties by directors, and assistance in  directors' compliance of law, etc. 
Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
In order to build an e ective compliance system of  ethical standards and regulatory compliance initiatives,  TSMC established not only the Ethics Code, but also the  internal policies and procedures in major areas of law. We  also track and identify any relevant regulatory changes  to ensure that TSMC's internal policies and procedures  are e ective and up to date. For more details of Ethics  and Regulatory Compliance at TSMC, please also refer  to TSMC's 2019 Annual Report "3.5 Code of Ethics and  Business Conduct" and "3.6 Regulatory Compliance".  
Nomination and Election of Directors 
In 2019, the Board of Directors established "Guidelines  for Nomination of Directors", which describes the  procedures and criteria for the nomination, quali cation  and evaluation of candidates for Directors. 
Risk Management 
Based on both its corporate vision and its long- term, sustainable, responsibility to both industry  and society, TSMC operates an enterprise risk  management (ERM) program to integrate and manage  potential sustainability risks including strategic,  operational,  nancial and hazardous risks (climate  change, utility supply, earthquake,  re, chemical  spill , and con ict mineral) that represent potential  negative consequences to operations and  nancial  results. The TSMC risk management organization is  composed of RM Steering Committee, RM Executive  Council, RM Program and RM Task Force. The risk  management framework including risk identi cation  and assessment, risk control and mitigation, risk  response, risk monitoring and reporting is applied to  identify and prioritize risk controls, implement various  controls and risk treatment. The risk management  organization periodically briefs the audit committee on  the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the  focus of the Company's enterprise risk management,  and risk assessment and mitigation e orts. The audit  committee's chairperson also reports on the risk  environment and risk mitigation actions to be taken.  For more details of Risk Management, please refer to  TSMC's 2019 Annual Report "6.3 Risk Management". 
In compliance with the vision and mission of the TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, TSMC has further connected to  
the international sustainability trend in 2019 by establishing a CSR Executive Committee to serve as the highest level decision- 
making center for corporate social responsibilities. TSMC s Chairman acts as the chairperson for the committee, and the CSR  
Committee chairperson serves as the executive secretary. They work with senior executives across di erent functions to assess  
TSMC s core operational capability, establish mid-to-long term development goals for CSR, and map out a blueprint for sustainable  
development that connects TSMC s core advantages with UN sustainable development goals (SDGs).  
Corporate Social Responsibility  Executive Committee Corporate Social Responsibility  Committee 
Chairman Chairperson 
Committee  Members 
Executive  Secretary 
CSR Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Chairperson of Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee 
Senior executives from research  technology development, business  development, operations, materials  and risk management and human  resources, etc. 
Chairman leads the management team  to formulate the Company's vision and  long-term strategy in CSR, and works  with the CSR Committee to promote  related actions, cultivate sustainable  culture, and drive for more positive  changes 
Chairperson 
Committee  Members 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Chairman appoints a senior executive to serve  as chairperson of the committee 
Quarterly Meetings to 
Functional organizations related to the economy,  environment, society, and corporate governance  propose representatives 
 Identify issues of sustainability that need to be  monitored, and formulate corresponding action plans 
 The chairperson of the Committee reports to the  Board of Directors annually on the performance  results of the current year and work plans for the  upcoming year 
 Supervise interdepartmental communications and  resource integration coordination 
 Track the performance results of all facets to  sustainable issues, and establish continuous  improvement plans 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
As a corporate citizen, TSMC adheres to its core values, and does its utmost to  serve as a world-class company trusted by global investors through solid  nancials  and transparent corporate disclosures.  
Our commitment to society and stakeholders is our core value of Integrity,  good corporate governance, a culture of strict adherence to regulatory  compliance, and intellectual property protection. These commitments  are key to ensuring TSMC s sustainable future.  
Quality is fundamental in our work and the services we provide. TSMC  is unequivocally devoted to developing sustainable operations and  the continued improvement of supply chain quality. We strive to do  so through strengthening a culture of quality, sharing case studies of  success, working closely with customers and suppliers, coalescing around  common core values, and continued innovation.  
Customers are important partners of TSMC.  Through continuous  innovation and manufacturing excellence, we strive to build long-term  relationships with our customers and serve as a trusted, long-term partner  that clients can rely for success. 
Wendell Huang  Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial O cer 
Sylvia Fang Vice President, Legal and General Counsel   Corporate Governance O cer 
Dr. Jun He  Senior Director, Quality and Reliability 
Y.P. Chin Senior Vice President, Operations   Product Development 
Note: Passages by sequence of the chapters 
Shareholders   Investors Customers 
Government Suppliers   Contractors 
Economy Society Environment Governance 
The existing CSR Committee serves as the communication platform that integrates and brings together di erent  
departments and employees to carry out TSMC s sustainable development blueprint. Task forces that are set up for  
quarterly meetings and based on issues identify sustainable topics related to company operations and of stakeholders   
interest. The task forces formulate corresponding strategies and guiding principles, compile CSR budgets for each  
organization, coordinate resources, plan and carry out the annual plans, and track progress to ensure that CSR strategies  
are fully ful lled in the daily operations of TSMC.  
Society Employees 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Customer Service Operations 
Legal Environment, Health, and Safety 
Investor Relations 
Human Resources 
Quality and Reliability Accounting 
Brand  Management  R D 
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
CSR Executive  Committee 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Public Relations 
Materials  Management    Risk Management  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC values corporate social responsibility and continues to require  commitment and e ort from global supply chain partners. We buy  responsibly and use our actions to help propel the semiconductor supply  chain into a sustainable future. We expect our suppliers to set goals, achieve  them, and continue to raise the bar for themselves and the industry.  
Green manufacturing is the cornerstone of sustainable operations. While pursuing  technological innovations, TSMC continues to emphasize energy conservation,  water conservation, waste reduction, and environmental protection in general.  TSMC is committed in cultivating a corporate culture with strong environmental  protection awareness. We also continue to adopt renewable energy, recycled  water, and circular economy to ensure that such resources are used at maximum  e ciency levels. We hope to work with our supply chain to become a stabilizing  force in environmental protection and sustainability.  
Our employees are our most important asset in maintaining a competitive edge.  They are the driving force for social development and upgrading industry. Looking  ahead, we will increase partnerships with academic institutions to cultivate  a talent pool for TSMC and the semiconductor industry. We continue to build  a diverse and inclusive work environment so talents are willing to join us and  contribute to TSMC. At the same time, we also encourage employees to participate  in society and care for the disadvantaged.  
TSMC is cultivating talents for the semiconductor industry and leading the world  in the latest semiconductor technology. We continue to drive Moore s Law  forward and help our customers develop innovative, high-tech products. In doing  so, we hope to create a sustainable future through the power of technology.  
J.K. Lin Senior Vice President, Information Technology and Materials  Management   Risk Management 
J.K. Wang Senior Vice President, Operations   Fab Operations 
Connie Ma Vice President, Human Resources 
Dr. Y.J. Mii Senior Vice President, Research   Development   Technology Development 
Note: Passages by sequence of the chapters 
CSR Reporting to the Board of Directors in 2019 
Achievements 
CSR Committee Achievements in 2019 
 In response to climate change, the committee strengthened the performance  of green manufacturing, developed diverse technologies for resource  regeneration, realized circular economy, and used more renewable energy. 
 TSMC pushed for a sustainable supply chain and continued to conduct supplier  risk assessments, asking all suppliers to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct,  and carry out the Responsible Supply Chain Action Plan.  
 According to the sustainable development blueprint mapped out by the CSR  Executive Committee, TSMC continued to align its core business with SDGs. 
 The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity Foundation   actively supported our youth, arts education, education in remote areas, and  the disadvantaged to bring positive changes to society. 
 Formulated 2030 goals and execution plans for each organization according to the nine UN SDGs selected by  Chairman and CSR Executive Committee members 
 The TSMC Charity Foundation established the Sending Love charity platform, leveraging digital technology  to improve education in remote areas. The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation promoted exquisite arts,  increased its momentum to support youth cultivation, and built a diversi ed education program that can be  tailored to each student's needs 
 Fulfilled green manufacturing, helped Taiwan develop renewable energy, developed green tools with  suppliers, advocated for building water recycling plants, increased the percentage of resource recycling, and  realized the circular economy 
 Led the domestic supply chain to upgrade, continued plans to purchase locally, and established a  comprehensive auditing and coaching system for suppliers. Conducted environmental P L assessments for  suppliers for the  rst time to ensure sustainable development across the supply chain 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2020 Work Plans 
 Develop renewable energy    recycled water, realize  the circular economy, and  continue to promote green  manufacturing. 
 Reinforce human rights,  environmental protection,  safety, and operational  resilience among suppliers  to build a sustainable supply  chain. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Innovation is the driving force for continued development in TSMC. We work  together to build a workplace that inspires innovation and encourages our  employees to tackle challenges head-on and work with each other to explore  innovation in various  elds, overcome bottlenecks in technology development,  and continue marching onward.  
IC design innovation is at the core of all technology development. We enable  our customers to unleash tens of thousands of IC design innovations each year.  These innovations o er products that are more e cient, intelligent, and energy- e cient, and allow us to greatly increase quality of life and promote sustainable  development. 
Through educational events and programs hosted by the Foundation, we would  like to o er our youth a stage to perform outside of the formal education system.  We hope that the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation can o er guidance,  companionship, and funding at all stages in order to help cultivate comprehensive  talents for the new era in our country and society. We aim to teach scienti c,  literary, and cultural literacy as well as inspire them to care for society.  
Corporate social responsibilities are not simply words but acts of love that can call  forth the warmth of humanity and ultimately help make our society a better place.  
Dr. Wei-Jen Lo Senior Vice President, Research   Development   Technology Development 
Dr. Kevin Zhang    Vice President, Business Development 
Dr. F.C. Tseng   Chairman, TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
Sophie Chang    Chairperson, TSMC Charity Foundation 
Note: Passages by sequence of the chapters 
Each year, TSMC complies with GRI Standards for Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality, and Completeness. Through three phases that include identi cation, analysis, and con rmation, we assess sustainability issues and carry  
out materiality analysis to align TSMC s strategies for sustainability management with our long-term goals. The GRI Standards also serve as a guideline for compiling our CSR report, allowing us to examine TSMC s current progress in sustainability,  
promote improvement within organizations, and create shared value for society and TSMC.  
6 Categories of Stakeholders 
Based on "internal external groups  or individuals that have an impact on  TSMC or being impacted by TSMC," we  have identi ed six major stakeholders  including employees, shareholder  investors, customers, suppliers  vendors, government   society  (community, academic institutions,  media, NGO NPO), etc. 
Step 1: De ne Major Stakeholders 
Phase 1: Identi cation 
In compliance with the AA 1000 SES (Stakeholder Engagement Standards, SES) and  taking into account the level of importance and relevance, TSMC regards the following  six stakeholders: employees, shareholders investors, customers, suppliers vendors, and  government   society (community, academic institutions, media, NGO NPO) as the major  stakeholders for communication. In 2019, we identi ed 16 sustainability issues to serve as  the basis for materiality analysis. The issues of sustainable products was divided and then  integrated into innovation management and product quality, allowing disclosure to be  more focused and comprehensive. Other result-oriented issues that are part of GRI general  disclosures such as corporate governance, risk management, stakeholder communication,   nancial performance, and taxes will be regularly disclosed in the Company's annual report,  website, CSR Report, and CSR website, instead of being mapped in the materiality matrix. 
Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Step 2: Collect Sustainability Issues 
We have compiled 16 issues related to  TSMC's sustainability from four major  sources: international sustainability  standards and regulations (GRI Standards,  ISO26000, UN Global Compacts, RBA,  and UN SDGs), sustainability-oriented  investment agencies (DJSI, CDP, TCFD,  MSCI ESG Index, and SDGs Invest), TSMC's  development targets and vision, and  stakeholder communication. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
819 Surveys  Collected  2,000 Employee  Communication Meetings 
In 2019, we collected 436 valid surveys from  critical stakeholders de ned by TSMC. We  also hosted over 2,000 communication  meetings to understand our colleagues'  expectations for TSMC and collected  383 supplier surveys during the Supplier  Management Forum to serve as basis for  analysis on the level of interest. 
Step 3: Assess Level of Interest 
Phase 2: Analysis 
Applying sustainability to the Company's daily operations is the core mindset of promoting sustainability management at TSMC. In 2019, we  attempted to involve ourselves in daily operations in order to truly understand what our stakeholders feel through various channels. This is  in addition to the usual survey on sustainability that we hand out to all stakeholders and we were able to collect 436 surveys this year. For  employees, TSMC hosted over 2,000 cross-level meetings, face-to-face discussions, interviews, and various forms of meetings to strengthen  our understanding of what our colleagues expect from TSMC and their recommendations for promoting sustainability within the company. For  suppliers, we've included, for the  rst time, a section on sustainability in surveys for suppliers to which we were able to collect 383 responses  during the Supplier Management Forum. We also raised the level required for participating in discussions on materiality in 2019. Chairman  Mark Liu leads the CSR Executive Committee, along with CSR Committee Chairperson and Senior Vice President Lora Ho, to analyze the impacts  of each issue on operations (pro tability, revenue, customer satisfaction, employee cohesion, risk) with a total of 114 colleagues that include  TSMC's vice presidents, senior fab directors, and fab directors. We hope that this can help us reach a consensus of major issues and map out a  future roadmap to sustainability.  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Step 4: Analyze Impact on Operations 
114 Colleagues 
Taking into account the impact on the  economy, environment, and society, TSMC  identi ed the impact of each sustainability  issue through  ve operational aspects:  pro tability, revenue, customer  satisfaction, employee cohesion, and  risk. A total of 114 colleagues including  Chairman, senior vice presidents, vice  presidents, senior fab directors, and fab  directors participated in the investigation. 
Step 5: Map the Materiality Matrix 
According to the results from step 3    4, we have mapped out the materiality  matrix for TSMC. The CSR Committee  have discussed and agreed on the  results, identifying 13 material issues  and three potential issues. 
Step 6: Decide Disclosure Boundaries 
Procurement, wafer fabrication,  packaging testing, and customer use  are the four major stages of TSMC's value  chain, which determine sustainability  disclosure boundaries to help identify the  impact of such issues on our upstream  and downstream stages. 
The CSR Committee was able to identify 13 sustainability issues as material based on analysis  from the materiality matrix with three remaining issues identi ed as potential subjects that require  attention. Based on these sustainability issues, we have established a long-term target, strategy,  and action plan for 2030. We are also assessing each issues' impact on TSMC's value chain including  supply chain, company operations, and customers. In pursuant to GRI Standards, we have also  identi ed 20 material topics speci c to TSMC. Based on reporting requirements, we have collected  company information, data, and management approach to be disclosed in the 2019 CSR Report that  will serve as motivation for continued improvement. Compared to assessment results in the last year,  there was improvement in Water Management and Occupational Safety and Health. Management  contributed the improvement to the growing importance of these two issues on company  operations which led to adjustments to the materiality matrix and resulting in it becoming a focus of  sustainability within the company. 
Phase 3: Con rmation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Step 7: Review Disclosed Content 
We have aligned the 13 major issues with  the 20 speci c topics in the GRI Standards  to collect and disclose relevant information  based on the reporting requirements and  management approach dictated by GRI.  Other sustainability issues deemed signi cant  by the CSR Committee were disclosed at the  same time. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Stakeholder Interest 
TSMC Materiality 
Note: Corporate governance, risk management, stakeholder communications,  nancial performance, and taxes were generally disclosed and result-oriented issues. While  they were not mapped in the materiality matrix, relevant information will be regularly disclosed in the Company s annual report, CSR Report, and CSR website 
Ethical   Management 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Air Pollution  Control Climate Change 
Innovation and  Service 
Waste  Management 
Human Rights 
Responsible Supply  Chain 
Impact on TSMC Business 
Talent Attraction  and Retention 
Water  Management 
Social Participation 
Green  Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Ethics Code 
Talent Development 
Regulatory Compliance 
Occupational Safety  and Health 
Energy Management 
Supplier Sustainability Management 
Product Quality 
Customer  Service 
Innovation Management 
Material Issues   the TSMC Value Chain 
Note 1:  Upstream  boundaries are raw materials, equipment, and related services purchased by TSMC Note 2:  Company Operations  boundaries are wafer fabrication and packaging testing services o ered by TSMC Note 3:  Customer Use  boundaries are customer products manufactured by TSMC 
Inclusive  Workplace 
Common  Good 
Innovation  and Service 
Responsible  Supply Chain 
Green  Manufacturing 
Ethical  Management 
Focus Material Issues 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Social Participation Economic Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts, and Local Communities 
Talent Attraction and  Retention 
Occupational Safety  and Health Occupational Health and Safety 
Air Pollution Control Emissions 
Waste Management E uents and Waste 
Talent Development Training and Education 
Human Rights Labor   Management Relations, Non-discrimination, Freedom of Association and  Collective Bargaining, Forced or Compulsory Labor, and Human Rights Assessment 
Water Management Water, E uents and Waste 
Innovation  Management Energy 
Sustainable Product Customer Health and Safety 
Customer Service Customer Privacy 
Supplier Sustainability  Management Procurement Practices, Supplier Environmental Assessment   Supplier Social Assessment 
Energy Management Energy 
Climate Change Emissions   Economic Performance 
Ethics Code Anti-corruption   Anti-competitive Behavior 
Regulatory Compliance Environmental Compliance   Socioeconomic Compliance 
Pro tability Revenue Customer  Satisfaction Employee  Engagement Risk Purchase Stage Wafer  Fabrication  Packaging   Testing Customer   Use 
Operational Impact 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Economic Performance, Labor Management Relations, Diversity and Equal Opportunity,  and Market Presence 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
GRI Standard Speci c Topics 
Upstream Note 1 Company Operations  Note 2 Downstream  Note 3 
Material Issues   Risk Management 
Regulatory  Compliance 
Innovation  Management 
Product Quality Challenges to with product quality and  yield 
Customer Service Losing customers 
Supplier  Sustainability  Management 
Energy Management Energy shortage or power outage Increase Energy E ciency: Plan for new energy-saving measures each year and actively implement energy-saving  measures, increasing the e ciency of power consumption 
Climate Change Operational impact and rising GHG  emissions brought on by climate change 
Code of Ethics and  Business Conduct 
Material Issues Risk Consideration Risk Type Risk Mitigation Our Approach Strategic Operational Hazardous 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Employee violations of the TSMC Ethics  Code 
Regulatory non-compliance by the  company 
Inability to foresee changes in  technologies and develop innovative  technologies 
Supplier concentration and supplier  non-compliance with TSMC or legal  requirements 
Inadequate intellectual property  protection 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Reinforce Both Internally and Externally: The management team of TSMC takes ethics and regulatory compliance  seriously. It is re ected not only internally in the formulation of compliance policies and procedures, providing training  and promotion activities, and periodic assessments and declarations, but also externally through the participation of  third parties. Furthermore, the culture of ethics and regulatory compliance is cultivated through e ective reporting  channels and whistleblower protection 
Regulatory Compliance: Ensure the Company s regulatory compliance through a series of measures to track and  evaluate legislation, set and implement plans for regulatory compliance, conduct compliance training and maintain  open reporting channels 
Technology Leadership: Continuous investment and e orts on leading-edge technology development to maintain  TSMC s technology leadership in the semiconductor industry 
Patent Protection: TSMC continuously updates the Company s patent portfolio to fully protect its R D achievement  through expanding its portfolio 
Trade Secret Protection: TSMC strengthens the Company s operations and intellectual property innovation through the  registration and management of trade secrets, which involves recording and integrating applications for trade secrets  that are competitive advantages for the Company 
Quality Capability Improvement: Leverage machine learning to construct an outgoing visual defect inspection and  classi cation system for 12-inch wafers to increase employee productivity 
Raw Material Management: Stricter control of purchased raw materials, build comprehensive testing capabilities for  incoming shipments, strengthen trial tests before the use of raw materials, and reinforce online IC chip inspections 
Precise Response: Provide excellent customer service through close collaboration with customers and customer  meetings and surveys on a regular basis to understand and respond to their requirements and feedback 
Virtual Fab: Provide comprehensive information in a timely manner to ensure the success of customer s  nal products   strengthen processes and systems to hold the highest standards to protect customer product information 
Improve Supply Chain Sustainability: Carry out the four major management approaches of Code Compliance, Risk  Assessment, Audit Participation, and Consistent Improvement. Following the TSMC Business Continuity Management  Policy, we will reinforce supply chain resilience and continue to disperse production sites as well as assess new suppliers  to achieve a diverse sourcing strategy  
Drive Low-carbon Manufacturing: Continue to use best available technology to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases  (GHG), becoming an industry leader in low-carbon manufacturing 
Use Renewable Energy: Continue to purchase renewable energy while establishing a solar-energy power system,  increasing the use of renewable energy 
Strengthen Climate Resilience: Establish climate change countermeasures and preemptive precautions, lowering the  risks of climate change 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Please refer to  Ethics and Regulatory  Compliance  in this Report 
Please refer to  Ethics and Regulatory  Compliance  in this Report  
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  6.3 Risk Management 
Please refer to  Innovation Management   in this Report  
Please refer to  Innovation Management   in this Report  
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual  Report:6.3 Risk Management 
Please refer to  Product Quality  in this  Report  
Please refer to  Customer Service  in this  Report  
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  6.3 Risk Management  
Please refer to  Supplier Sustainability  Management  in this Report  
Please refer to  Climate Change and  Energy Management  in this Report  
Please refer to  Climate Change and  Energy Management  in this Report  
(Continue on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Waste Management 
Air Pollution Control Environmental impact of air pollutants 
Talent Attraction and  Retention 
Talent Development 
Human Rights Allegations of human rights violations 
Occupational Safety  and Health 
Water Management Water scarcity or shortage and the  environmental impact of wastewater  
Material Issues Risk Consideration Risk Type Risk Mitigation Our Approach Strategic Operational Hazardous 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Environmental impact of waste or waste  management vendors  non-compliance  with TSMC or legal regulations 
Unable to attract talent 
Talent cultivation and training programs are  unable to support innovative technologies  and operations of new fabs in TSMC 
Occupational accidents, occupational  diseases, earthquakes,  res, chemical  hazards, emerging infectious diseases (e.g.  COVID-19) 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Risk Management of Water Resources: Enforce climate change mitigation policies, implement water conservation and  water shortage adaptation measures 
Develop Diverse Water Sources: Integrate internal and external company resources to develop regenerated water  technology  implement water conservation and the use of regenerated water in the manufacturing process 
Develop Preventive Measures: Improve the e ciency of water pollution prevention and removal of water pollutants 
Source Reduction: Promote waste reduction by waste source separation and demand low consumption chemical  equipment from our suppliers 
Circular Economy: Collaborate with business partners to develop new waste recycling technology in order to increase  the amount of waste recycled and reused 
Audit and Guidance: Conduct joint evaluation and supervision based on standards of waste management  rms in the  high-tech Industry 
Use Best Available Technology: Adapt best available technology to deal with pollution caused by operations and  mitigate environmental impact 
Strengthen Monitoring of Prevention Facilities: Leverage backup systems and dual-track management, along with  pollutant monitors, to ensure that equipment functions as intended and prevent abnormal occurrences 
Hire Employees with Shared Visions   Values: Establish a standard for talent selection  build diverse recruiting  channels  promote the internship program and the Overseas Recruitment Project  and work with top universities around  the world to facilitate momentum for long-term growth 
Advocate for Self-learning: O er diverse learning resources and channels to encourage self-learning among employees  and improve their technical capabilities in order to achieve of technology development or volume production tasks 
Human Rights Due Diligence: Continue to strengthen our commitment to human rights and risk mitigation according  to the TSMC Human Rights Policy and Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct 
Sustainability Risk Management: All suppliers are required to comply with the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct,  and to follow regulations on human rights and con ict-free minerals. TSMC continues to conduct sustainability risk  assessments, and encourages major critical suppliers to join the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
Advocate Safety Culture: Deeply instill a people oriented safety culture, manage safety risks and establish an  intrinsically safe working environment 
Comprehensive Health Management: Implement the prevention of occupational diseases and promote a  comprehensive health management 
Internal-External Alliance: Collaborate with external parties to establish a safer working environment in our supply chain  
Reinforce Responses to Compound Disasters: Regularly carry out drills for compound disasters, e.g.  re drill for  earthquake-induced  res, improve the aseismic capabilities of tools and equipment, enhance production recovery  capability and new fab planning 
Prevention of Infectious Diseases: Establish a guideline for the response of noti able diseases  convene a committee  for disease prevention when necessary  identify, implement, and monitor the pandemic  to adopt appropriate measures 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Please refer to  Water Management  in  this Report  
Please refer to  Waste Management  in  this Report  
Please refer to  Air Pollution Control  in  this Report  
Please refer to  Talent Attraction and  Retention  in this Report 
Please refer to  Talent Development  in  this Report 
Please refer to  Human Rights  in this  Report  
Please refer to  Supplier Sustainability  Management  in this Report  
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report: 
6.3 Risk Management  
Please refer to  Occupational Safety and  Health  in this Report 
Stakeholder Communication 
    Communication and work meetings  within organizations   daily 
    Communication meetings of all levels    quarterly 
    Labor-management meetings   quarterly 
    Fab Caring Circle, Employee Opinion Box  and Ombudsman System   as needed 
    Employee survey   annually 
    Ethics training   annually 
    Employee core values survey   biannually 
Communication Channels    Frequency 
We strive to uphold the Company's values,  strengthen awareness of ethics among  employees, o er a challenging and  enjoyable work environment, foster an open- style management model, and become the  most appealing employer for our employees 
60 Labor-management meetings 
3,998 Cases handled by internal  communication channels  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Focus Areas 
Responses from TSMC 
 Talent Attraction and Retention  
 Talent Development  
 Human Rights 
 Strengthen industry-academia collaborations around the world to discover and cultivate more young talent 
 Expand interaction and cooperation across functions to broaden employee vision and foster well-rounded talent 
 Leverage big data or AI tools to upgrade o ce automation to improve productivity and reduce work hours 
 Participate in more events hosted by the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity Foundation for deeper  social participation 
 Suggest the Company to include technical sta  into annual ethics and regulatory compliance trainings 
 Launched semiconductor courses in universities for the  rst time, hosted a large-scale IC layout competition, and continued to o er  shuttle programs and IC layout courses in universities 
 Strengthened framework for employee development, and adopted a dual-track system covering both management and technical  expertise to allow employees to develop to their full potential in the right places according to their personal characteristics and skills 
 Emphasized on talent transfer and development internally  enhanced internal transfer management to achieve 100% internal  transfer rate 
 Dedicated to intelligent knowledge by introducing the latest Industry 4.0 and Industrial AI technology to build a knowledge base for  engineering analysis 
 Encouraged employees to serve as volunteers and build greater connections with the community  devoted resources to those in  need through the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity Foundation to help employees engage deeply in  social participation 
 Technical sta  were included to receive annual ethics and regulatory compliance trainings for the  rst time, with a completion  rate of 99.71%. We also o ered trainings on con icts of interest for 1,134 production line managers as part of e orts to raise ethics  awareness. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Social Participation 
 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Dr. Bharath Pulicherla, TSMC Academician, received recognition from   Dr. Mark Liu, Chairman of TSMC 
I ve served at TSMC for over 12 years and  I m very lucky to have been tasked with  expanding into a new  eld that we direly  need to expand into. With support from  management, I ve been given a high  degree of freedom in carrying out the task,  making it highly ful lling. 
Dr. Bharath Pulicherla 
2019 TSMC Academician 
    General shareholders' meeting   annually 
    Investor conferences   quarterly 
    Domestic and overseas broker  conferences   periodically 
    Face-to-face meetings and telephone  conference calls   as needed 
    Emails   as needed 
    Annual report, CSR report, and annual  report on Form 20-F with the US Securities  and Exchange Commission   annually 
    Major announcements on the Market  Observation Open System   as needed 
To help investors understand TSMC's  investment value, TSMC communicates with  investors about its growth strategies, stable  pro tability, good shareholder returns, and  performance in sustainability 
307 Institutional investors   
Communication Channels    Frequency 
322 Conferences and meetings  
Shareholders    Investors 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Focus Areas 
Responses from TSMC 
 Financial Performance 
 Innovation Management 
 Impact from global politics and economy on the Company's operations and its countermeasures 
 Changes in the competitive environment 
 Future growth potential and pro tability 
 Dividend policy 
 Measures in response to climate change and energy policy 
 In 2019, through quarterly investor conferences and 322 investor meetings, TSMC communicated with its investors about market  trends, growth strategies, and pro tability, and expressed its opinions on changes in the business environment 
 With the support of strong operating performance and future growth potential, TSMC has been providing positive return on  investment to investors for 11 consecutive years. 
 TSMC started distributing cash dividends on a quarterly basis in 2019. Shareholders of TSMC common shares received a total of  NT 10 cash dividend per share in 2019, a 25% increase from 2018. 
 Increased usage of renewable energy and identi ed climate change risk and opportunities within the TCFD framework  TSMC  proposed a Project for Increasing Energy E ciency in Manufacturing, making it the  rst in the industry to implement the New  Generation Equipment Energy Conservation Program 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Risk Management 
 Climate Change 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC is one of the best Asian companies  in sustainability practices. The company  continues to push the envelope of  technology and improves power e ciency  of its products, and communicates  with stakeholders in compliance with  international practices. These e orts are  re ected in the company s robust ROC,  which underpins its outperformed share  price. We look forward to seeing greater  success from TSMC in coming years. 
Toby Hudson 
Head of Asia ex Japan Equity Investments   Schroders  Investment Management (Hong Kong), LTD. 
TSMC is making technologies become  more energy-e cient and a ordable in  the future, which will help us manage the  world s resources to improve our lives and  drive future innovation. We would like to  see further improvement in the Company s  carbon footprint, becoming the benchmark  for sustainability report disclosure in Asia  and around the world. 
Michael McBrinn 
Partner   Generation Investment Management LLP. 
    Business and technology assessment    quarterly 
    Customer satisfaction survey   annually 
    Customer meetings   as needed 
We o er customers high-quality products,  services as well as the highest degree of  protection for proprietary information  through innovations and cutting-edge  process technologies 
Communication Channels    Frequency 
33 Customers involved in quarterly  assessments 
136 Quarterly assessment  meetings 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Focus Areas 
Responses from TSMC 
 Continued to optimize the TSMC-Online TM function, allowing customers to make production orders such as batches of experiment  or product transfers 
 Set up an Early Failure Rate System internally to ensure product information is updated in real-time, resolve process  aws, increase  product yield, lower reliability risk, and strengthen partnership with customers 
 Fab 14B all received security certi cations with the highest security standard for products and related PIP protection. TSMC is now  quali ed to produce security IC products and receive orders for high-security products. 
 Innovation Management 
 Product Quality 
 Customer Service 
 Technology development schedules and plans 
 Capacity planning and production information 
 Manufacturing excellence 
 Information transparency and protection 
 O ered customers 765 types of manufacturing and process technologies in line with the technology roadmap 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC o ers transparent and predictable  manufacturing information, so we have no  surprises on our operations. They deliver  products on time, respond quickly when  we have urgent needs, take responsibility,  and are very professional. 
Sunny Gupta 
Renesas Electronics Corporation   Vice President,  Worldwide Operation 
Xilinx s 16nm new products achieved  single-digit FIT (Failure in Time) rate soon,  and has since maintained an outstanding  record on quality and reliability. TSMC  Q R team s hard work, as well as their  leadership, contributed greatly to our  success. 
Dr. Antai Xu 
Senior Director of Reliability Xilinx, Inc. 
    Supplier Management Forum, Responsible  Supply Chain Forum, Supply Chain  Environment, Safety, and Health Forum,  Advanced Materials Forum   annually 
    On-site support   audit   as needed 
    TSMC supplier code of conduct campaign    annually 
    Supplier ethics survey   biannually 
    Supplier self-assessment questionnaire    annually 
Suppliers and contractors are important  partners to TSMC's operations, and  together we strive to develop new process  technologies, improve quality, comply  with environmental safety and health  regulations, and better business ethics  and code of conducts. We also hope to  strengthen partnerships with suppliers to  create a sustainable supply chain 
Communication Channels    Frequency 
702 Suppliers participated in the TSMC  Supply Chain Management Forums 112 Supplier audit    communication meetings  
Suppliers    Contractors 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Focus Areas 
Responses from TSMC 
 98.8% of suppliers believe that Supplier Code of Conduct training materials and case  les were helpful in realizing and promoting  the code  84.9% of suppliers are now aware of reporting channels in TSMC  
 46 critical suppliers completed third-party supplier audits on sustainability risk by RBA-certi ed institution  16 suppliers received  consultation on process advancement and quality improvement 
 Worked with suppliers to develop electronic-grade materials recycling  held the Responsible Supply Chain Forum and related  training courses, sharing practical experiences which were then applied into the factory operations of our suppliers 
 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
 Product Quality 
 Sustainable Management in the Supply Chain  Environmental Protection, Safety and Health 
 Stayed focus on TSMC's ethics and regulatory compliance and supplier code of conduct 
 Carried out sustainable actions and continued to improve 
 Emphasized on the quality requirements of raw materials 
 Built an e cient mechanism for waste management 
 All tier 1 suppliers signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and complied with business ethics (completion rate: 100%) 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Doris Hsu, chairperson of GlobalWafers Co., Ltd.   Taiwan  Speciality Chemicals Co., Ltd,. received recognition at the  Supply Chain Management Forum 
Protecting the environment is an important  corporate social responsibility, and we will  continue to promote green manufacturing  and work with TSMC to build a better,  sustainable supply chain. 
Chairperson of GlobalWafers Co., Ltd.   Taiwan  Speciality Chemicals Co., Ltd.  
With a belief in respecting the environment  and life sustainability, sustainable  development is at the foundation of all the  businesses we build and we are happy to  work with TSMC to create a green supply  chain. 
Taiwan Country Manager of Versum Materials Taiwan 
    O cial correspondences and visits   as  needed 
    Interviews to provide industry experience  and advice   as needed 
    Conferences (e.g. brie ngs, public  hearings, symposia, seminars, meetups)    as needed 
    Communication platforms of the industry  associations   monthly 
Focus on TSMC's patent applications  and overall technology, pro t-seeking  enterprise income tax payments and  increasing investment incentives,  purchasing renewable energy, programs for  recycled water, and TSMC's promotion and  experience sharing on Occupational Safety  and Health 
Communication Channels    Frequency 
88 Government meetings attended 
84 Industry association  conferences and meetings 
Government 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Focus Areas 
Responses from TSMC 
 Tax Policies 
 Innovation Management 
 Climate Change and Energy Management 
 Development trends of advanced semiconductor technology and the current situation of TSMC's  technologies 
 Purchase of renewable energy 
 Use of recycled water 
 Waste management and promotion of circular economy 
 Compliant to regulations on water pollution prevention and control, air pollution prevention, and chemical substances  control, etc. 
 Assisted in improving occupational safety and health management in the supply chain 
 O ered a general course on the process technology, development, and applications of the semiconductor industry to the National Tax  
 Overseas locations are all using renewable energies now  Taiwan factories continued to purchase renewable energy in order to achieve  
 Participated in the government's promotion of recycled water. TSMC is scheduled to begin to use  rst-phase water supplies from the Yongkang  
 On behalf of the Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association and the Taiwan Science Park Association of Science and Industry to discuss  
 Held four Environmental, Safety, and Health Experience-sharing Workshops  Suppliers are required to better manage energy conservation,  
Administration of Northern Taiwan Province under the Ministry of Finance so the government can be familiar with the semiconductor industry 
the goal that 20% of electricity consumption of 3nm technology production will be renewable energy, and to reach the long-term goal that  
25% of all the Company's electricity consumption will be renewable energy in 2030. 
water regeneration facility by the end of 2020. 
with the Environmental Protection Administration regarding air pollution emission standards and the Toxic and Concerned Chemical  
Substances Control Act for the semiconductor industry 
 re safety, and occupational safety and health 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Water Management 
 Occupational Safety and Health 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In addition to creating economic value in  the industry, TSMC is devoted to promoting  circular economy, proving its outstanding  performance in economic development  and environmental protection through  recycled water, re nement of sulfuric acid  waste, and recycling of copper metals. 
Dr. Yuh-Ming Lee 
Distinguished Professor and Director, Institute of  Natural Resource Management, National Taipei  University      
189 Cooperating charity groups 
221,935 Cumulative number of  bene ciaries  
    Volunteer service   at least once per week 
    TSMC LinkedIn   as needed 
    Foundation websites   as needed 
    "Sending Love" charity platform   as  needed 
    Project cooperation and visits   as needed 
TSMC hopes that the TSMC Education and  Culture Foundation can o er resources for  education and arts to cultivate well-rounded  talents in the new era  focuses of the TSMC  Charity Foundation are on emergency relief  aid, volunteer service, and various charity  programs 
Communication Channels    Frequency 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Focus Areas 
Responses from TSMC 
 Social Participation 
 Promotion of charity, education and culture programs 
 Increased the number of cooperating charity groups as well as bene ciaries and the scope of our volunteer service 
 Focused on TSMC's e orts to resolve social issues and its impact 
 Continued to promote art and cultural activities  expanded sponsorships for outstanding local art groups 
 In 2019, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation expanded its support for the diverse education program and devoted NT   96.69 million  it was also the  rst time that TSMC participated in the ATCC Case Competition and we expanded the event to include  the TSMC Youth Dream Building Project, encouraging youth to act on their creative ideas and participate in social issues. Eighty-nine  groups of students from Taoyuan, Hsinchu, Miaoli, and Tainan in a total of 21 colleges and universities attended the competition. 
 In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation devoted funds, resources, and volunteers to target four charity projects: Caring for Elders  Living Alone, Promoting Filial Piety, Taking Care of the Disadvantaged, and Environmental Protection. The foundation focused on  putting resources into Education in Remote Areas and Aid for the Disadvantaged, with 8,174 volunteers serving nearly 84,000 hours.  Donations exceeded NT 143 million. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
We are grateful for the support and  counseling provided by the TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation. Right  now, we are still a small social enterprise  but we will strive to create value in society  through charity work just as the TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation has  consistently done. 
Leader of Package Plus, the TSMC team that  participated in the 17 th ATCC Case Competition 
The Ten Thousand Dollars Per Household  Program initiated by the TSMC Charity  Foundation has eased the burden of   nancial stress and warmed our hearts.  My work and family life was able to get on  track when we were receiving aid so we  really appreciate all your e orts!  
Bene ciary of the Ten Thousand Dollars Per Household  Program in Tainan 
Note 1:  Production Value Driven by the Supply Chain  was calculated with  assistance from the Industrial Economics   Knowledge Center. In  2019, the Directorate General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics  (DGBAS) issued the Input-Output Table for 2016, therefore the   Production Value Driven by the Supply Chain  for 2017 to 2019  was calculated based on the 2016 Input-Output Table 
Six Main Capitals Process and Methods Sustainable Value 
Sustainable Value Creation 
Generate economic  value and return by  e ectively managing   nancial resources 
Manufacturing 
Provide products that  meet the needs of  each client by carefully  maintaining equipment  and infrastructure manufacturing resources 
Intelligence 
Strengthen the power of  knowledge capital through  constant dedication in  innovative research and  development and patents 
Human Resource 
Strengthen talent  cultivation to be the  Company's key capital by  looking for outstanding,  like-minded colleagues  
Environment 
Reduce consumption of  natural resources and  maintain optimal usage  e ciency by managing  sources 
Give back to society  and obtain its trust  through community  participation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Integrity Leadership 
Innovation Research Management 
Customer Relationship Management 
Supply Chain  Management 
    Ethics Code 
    Regulatory Compliance 
    Innovation Management 
    Product Quality 
    Customer Service 
    Supply Chain  Sustainability  Management 
Senior Management Support 
The chairman personally participates in the promotion of  corporate social responsibilities, inviting senior executives to lead  functional organizations to propose sustainable solutions based  on the core competencies of TSMC to tackle environmental and  social problems and create greater positive in uences 
CSR Committee 
The CSR committee generates sustainable momentum within   organizations by holding quarterly meetings with focus on cross- functional communication  facilitation, resource integration and  monitoring projects' execution progress and performance 
Note 2: Environmental Pro t and Loss (EP L) presented in this section is the monetary assessment of  possible external impacts from TSMC s purchase and production. For the costs and economic  bene ts arising from the implementation of environmental protection projects, please refer to   Environmental Cost  in TSMC s 2019 annual report. For the methodologies of environmental  pro t and loss, please refer to the TSMC 2019 Environmental Pro t and Loss (EP L) Report. For  past impact-related projects, please refer to the TSMC 2016-2017 Social Impact Valuation Report 
Operational Impact:    Employee Loyalty      Risk      Revenue      Pro t      Customer Satisfaction 
Value Chain:     Upstream Procurement      TSMC Operations      Customer Use 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Seven  Sustainable  Management  Competencies 
Four Core  Elements 
Promoting corporate sustainability has been TSMC s commitment since the Company was established. As the Company continues to grow, we ve  established a clear mechanism for sustainable management through our e orts into the six main capitals, four core elements, and seven sustainable  management competencies. In order to consistently create value for our stakeholders, we have also established concrete, measurable long-term goals as  well as corresponding action plans that we can continue to review and correct. We are also taking advantage of our role as an industry leader, hoping that  we can extend our operational beliefs to each stages of our value chain. We hope that all of the sustainable management competencies can indeed make  an impact on our industry and society to drive a sustainable management model that maximizes net positive impact and minimizes negative impact. 
Mid-level Management Involvement 
Mid-level managers are the driving force behind the Company's advocacy for sustainability, conducting inter-organizational  and inter-departmental cooperation in the face of complex  sustainability issues in order to bring about material changes 
Organization Culture 
Foster an organization culture that doesn't commit easily, but make  all e orts to ful l the commitment when it does. Set long-term  goals and periodically review results on key issues that are in line  with international sustainability trends and operational needs 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 3: The impact of water consumption was originally calculated based on the  environmental characteristics of the countries where each production site was  located. Taking into consideration of regional di erences in water stress, we  adjusted the methodology to calculate the impact of water consumption based  on the environmental characteristics of where the fab is located (i.e. Hsinchu or  Tainan) in 2019. We also updated calculations for 2017 and 2018 accordingly 
Environment  Management 
Human Resource  Management 
Stakeholder Engagement 
    Energy Management 
    Climate Change 
    Water Management 
    Waste Management 
    Air Pollution Control 
    Talent Attraction and  Retention 
    Talent Development 
    Human Rights 
    Occupational Safety  and Health 
    Social Participation 
Economy Environment Society 
In 2019, TSMC completed a sustainability analysis in terms of the triple bottom line (TBL) by  evaluating the economic, environmental, and social impact of our own operations, while the  analysis also added an Environmental Pro t and Loss (EP L) methodology and valuation  results of the upstream supply chain.  For more information, please refer to the "Sustainability  Impact Valuation" section of this report. 
Cash Dividend 
Net Income 
Operating Revenue 
Depreciation and Amortization  Note1 
Production Value Driven by the  Supply Chain 
Greenhouse Gases  Note 2     
Air Pollution     
Wastewater     
Water Consumption  Note 3     
Environmental Impact of the  Supply Chain  Note2   Note4     
Employee Compensation 
Work Injury  Note 5     
Government Investors Customers 
Community Suppliers Employees 
Note 4: Environmental impact of the supply chain includes only tier 1 suppliers which TSMC had  more than two transactions with them in 2019 with the transaction amount exceeding  NT  10 million. A total of 441 suppliers met the criteria. We then calculated their  environmental impact based on their industry and the procurement dollar amount by  using the Environmentally Extended Input-Output Analysis (EEIOA) method Note 5: Calculation of industrial injury value   industrial injury cost   medical cost    
willingness to pay price to avoid occupational injury 
Historical Data (2017-2019) 
Unit: million (NT ) 
Common good is TSMC s vision for ful lling corporate  
sustainability. We ve integrated concepts of Pro t and  
Loss (P L) with sustainable management to establish a  
Strategy Map by focusing on causal relationship, using an  
outside-in perspective to measure the social impact of  
TSMC s value chain. For  Customer Use , we ve leveraged  
the latest process technologies to help our customers  
enable their innovations and improve energy e ciency.  
We hope to promote health, safety and convenience  
with technology while helping to build a low-carbon  
society. For  Upstream Procurement , we are taking  
advantage of our role as an industry leader in the global  
semiconductor industry to improve the technologies and  
competency of local suppliers, and propel development  
and production value for the semiconductor industry  
chain. In the face of environmental issues within the  
supply chain, we also advocate for a responsible supply  
chain that can reduce its impact on the environment and  
society. In  TSMC Operations , we work on renewable  
energy, green manufacturing, reclaimed water sources,  
and the circular economy based on innovations. In doing  
so, we hope that we are able to reduce the costs and  
impact of resource consumption on the society. 
Meanwhile, TSMC is working with a team from the  
Corporate Sustainability and Social Responsibility  
Center of the Tunghai University. Since 2018 we have  
introduced an assessment for Environmental Pro t  
  Loss (EP L) which puts a monetary value on the  
social costs incurred throughout the global production  
process. The introduction of EP L allows us to consider  
our environmental footprint and its external costs  
throughout our decision-making process. In 2019, we  
further expanded our EP L analysis towards upstream  
procurement, hoping that we are able to discover more  
opportunities to reduce environmental footprint and  
increase social welfare, creating a more sustainable  
Sustainability Impact Valuation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
supply chain and generating greater synergy for our  
value chain. 
In 2019, in terms of TSMC Operations, TSMC generated  
NT 1.07 trillion in revenue, made a provision of NT 286.9  
billion for depreciation and amortization, and issued  
NT 259.3 billion in cash dividend. TSMC not only helped  
customers and suppliers succeed, but also o ered good  
TSMC Sustainability Impact Valuation Model 
Scope   Boundary 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Measure   Value  
Impact Pathway 
Employee Compensation 
Water Consumption 
Input   Output Results Impact Valuation 
Greenhouse Gases 
Water Pollution 
Depreciation    Amortization 
Cash Dividend 
Air Pollution 
Net Income 
Work Injury 
Purchasing 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
returns to its investors. In terms of social value, we paid  
NT 168.7 billion in taxes and payroll, supporting our  
government to expand infrastructure and social welfare, and  
to create more job opportunities, while occupational injuries  
resulted in NT 13 million cost to society. Environmental  
footprint and resource consumption during the production  
process also resulted in NT 14.6 billion of environmental  
costs. For upstream procurement, TSMC helped drive  
Photochemical Ozone 
Interdependencies between  di erent industries 
Toxic Substances 
Global Warming 
Water Scarcity 
Particulates 
Human Health Damage 
Increased Output Value 
Individual  Employer  Social Costs 
Social Cost of Carbon 
NT 458.6 billion of production value in the supply chain  
while incurring NT 6.7 billion in environmental costs. 
Looking into the future, TSMC will continue to promote  
sustainability impact assessment. We will improve  
sustainable management performance through four major  
principles of insight, collaboration, transformation, and  
impact to create more signi cant value for society. 
Environmental Value 
Economic Value 
Social Value 
Sustainability Impact  Strategy Map 
From purchasing and production to  
customer usage, TSMC has outlined a  
strategy map for the value chain derived  
from the causal relationship between of  
these interconnected lines for inspecting  
our various actions comprehensively.  
A monetary value is embraced as a  
sustainable management tool to measure  
the potential external costs (-) and values  
( ) that TSMC generates on the economy,  
environment, and society. 
Note 1: The  Strategy Map  is derived from the  Balanced Scorecard, a performance  management tool researched and  developed by Robert S. Kaplan and  David P. Norton in the late 1990s. The  Balanced Scorecard connects goals  with driving factors to serve as a tool for  management Note 2: The  TSMC Sustainability Impact  Strategy Map  employs concepts of  performance management to connect  predicted results in value chain activities  with causality among driving factors.  We then apply the concept of P L to  identify positive or negative impacts to  the economy, environment, and society.  Such positive or negative impacts  include direct or indirect economic value  as well as the external costs or bene ts  brought onto the natural environment or  society 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Construct  Solar Power 
Water Usage 
Purchase  Renewable  Energy 
Build  Renewable  Source 
Industry Inter-  dependence 
Use of  Chemicals 
Wastewater  Recycling Wastewater  Drainage 
Use Non- renewable  Energy 
Renewable  Energy 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Process  Wastewater 
Water  Conservation 
Reuse of  Recycled  Water 
Process  Exhaust 
Energy  Conservation 
Reduce  Waste Coach  Local  Supplier Waste 
Purchasing 
Improve  Water Quality 
Source  Reduction 
Employment  Opportunities 
Terminal  Prevention 
Energy  Conservation 
Water  Consumption 
Drive  Production  Value 
Contract  Operations 
Air Pollution 
Resource  Renewal 
Environmental  Value Environmental  Impact 
Water  Pollution 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Economic  Value 
Process  Waste 
Compensation 
Environmental  Value 
Source  Reduction 
Work Injury 
Use of  Chemicals 
Work Injury 
Social Value 
Corporate  Volunteers 
Social Value 
Occupational  Works 
Compensation 
Economic  Value 
Customer  Sales 
Economic  Value 
Social   Value 
Employment  Opportunities 
Environmental  Value 
Depreciation    Amortization 
R D  Investment 
IC  Innovation 
Cash  Dividend 
High Performance 
Net Income 
Optimal  Surface Area 
Recruit  Talent 
Advanced  Process  Technologies 
Customer  Design 
Grounded in our mission to build a lasting foundation, TSMC is steadfastly committed to our business principles and four core values of integrity, commitment, innovation, and customer trust. By adhering to our core business, TSMC is focused on our core  
competencies and primary business while actively carrying out the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We hope that TSMC s e orts can bring about positive changes and impacts to the challenges faced by humanity. In 2019, Chairman  
Mark Liu and CSR Committee Chairperson and Senior Vice President Lora Ho established the CSR Executive Committee with senior management from Technology Development, Business Development, Operations, Materials and Supply Chain Management,  
and Human Resources. Starting with six sustainability focuses, the CSR Executive Committee has established  ve major development paths for CSR, collaborating to build a vision and blueprint for implementing SDGs. In 2019, TSMC chose nine major SDGs,  
drafted 37 long-term goals, and implement 23 sustainable approaches. With Goal 17 of the SDG   global partnerships   at the core, we collaborate with stakeholders inside and outside of TSMC as well as business partners along the value chain. Through  
participation, cooperation, and dialogue, we hope to build an inclusive and prosperous future together. 
Green Manufacturing  
TSMC can bene t global  sustainable development  by leading the industry in  developing highly e cient  semiconductor technologies  and employing green  innovation in response to  climate change 
Building a Responsible  Supply Chain  
Extend TSMC's operational and  manufacturing standards to  related industries in the supply  chain 
Creating Diverse    Inclusive Workplace  O er a diverse, equal, and safe  working environment  value  labor rights 
Talent Development  
Develop TSMC programs  and STEM education to  cultivate future talents for the  semiconductor industry 
Caring for the  Underserved  
Promote a social culture of  love through education and  daily life 
Five Major   Development Paths Procedures Six Sustainability Focuses 
Carry Out the UN Sustainable Development Goals  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Step 1 Understand    Prioritize   SDGs 
TSMC will abide by the three steps of Understand   Prioritize SDGs, Goals    Integration, and Disclosure   Communication. We will identify connections  with SDGs through our six sustainability focuses and value chain to draft long- term goals and action plans 
Step 1 Understand    Prioritize SDGs 9 SDGs 
Upstream  Procurement 
TSMC purchases  raw materials,  equipment and  related services 
Step 3 Disclosure   Communication 
Step 2 Goals    Integration 37 Long-term Goals 
TSMC  Operations 
TSMC o ers IC  fabrication and  packaging   testing services 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC provides  fully-produced  customer  products 
Customer   Use 
Step 3 Disclosure    Communication 23 Sustainable  Approaches 
Step 2 Goals    Integration 
Ethical Management 
Ful lling the core value of "integrity," keeping in mind that corruption and bribery  
can fundamentally undermine the foundation of corporate sustainability. Our open  
reporting system allows TSMC's code of conduct to be deeply rooted in the daily  
operations of employees and suppliers 
Innovation and Service 
Responding to rapid technology changes and global sustainability trends, TSMC  
introduces new technology applications through innovation, and resolves climate  
change issues through product and process innovation 
Responsible Supply Chain 
As a leader in the semiconductor industry, TSMC aims to increase the dollar  
value of local purchases through purchasing power, and incorporate corporate  
sustainability mindset and requirements into supply chain management to uplift  
the entire supply chain 
Green Manufacturing 
Building clean production fabs is a basic responsibility of corporate sustainability.  
The spirit of responsibility motivates TSMC to build green manufacturing fabs that  
emphasize dematerialization, decarbonization, and dehazardization across all  
aspects of our products, processes, and supply chain 
Inclusive Workplace 
Employees are the most valuable assets of TSMC. By recruiting, cultivating and  
retaining the right people with shared vision and values, the Company is committed  
to building a diverse and encompassing workplace where each and every employee  
enjoys human rights, skill development, and a safe work environment 
Common Good 
Society and Companies are interdependent. Through the TSMC Education and  
Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity Foundation, TSMC has been deeply  
involved in issues such as education, the disadvantaged, elder people living alone,  
and culture. We aim to send the power of love and in uence 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Good Health and Well-being 
O er better medical care to elder people  living alone 
Quality Education 
Promote  lial piety among young generations 
Care for the educationally disadvantaged 
Volunteer readers for children in remote areas  
Clean Water and Sanitation 
Reduce water consumption  
Raise the standard for wastewater  
Increase usage of reclaimed water  
 Provide 12,000 service visits to elder people  living alone through Network of Love 
 Promote  lial piety education in 120 educational  institutions 
 Continuously collaborate with public and private  educational organizations and provide no less  than NT 12 million in resources annually 
 Provide more than 10,000 hours of reading  service each year 
 Reduce unit water consumption (liter 8-inch  equivalent wafer mask layers) by 30% (Base  year: 2010) 
 Water pollution composite indicator 30% above  e uent standards 
 Increase the replacement rate of reclaimed water  by more than 30% 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
A ordable and Clean Energy 
Aim for energy-e cient production  
Encourage suppliers to conserve energy  
Adopt renewable energy  
 Double energy e ciency (8-inch equivalent  wafer-mask layers kWh) after  ve years of  mass production for each process technology 
 Provide consultation on power reduction for  suppliers and reduce energy consumption by  a cumulative total of 1,500 GWh (Base year:  2018) 
 Renewable energy accounts for 20% of energy  consumption of new fabs starting from 3 nm,  and the purchasing of renewable energy to  increase annually until 25% of manufacturing  fabs' power consumption is supplied from  renewable energy and non-fab power  consumption is 100% from renewable energy 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Linking SDGs and TSMC s Sustainable  Development Goals for 2030 
Decent Work and  Economic Growth 
O er competitive compensation  
Facilitate sustainability in the industry  
Support local suppliers  
 Continue to maintain a position above the 75 th  percentile among industry peers in total compensation 
 Tier 1 suppliers' completion rate of the Sustainability Management Self- Assessment Questionnaire : 100% 
 Completion rate of critical suppliers reporting on the status of sustainability  management in their critical upstream supply chains: 100% 
 Tier 1 suppliers' completion rate for signing the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct: 100% 
 Tier 1 suppliers completion rate for signing the TSMC Guidance on Supplier  Business Conduct and conducting internal training every two years : 100% 
 Critical suppliers completion rate for receiving third-party audits every three  years: 100% 
 Completion rate of annual ethics and regulatory compliance training to  employees: 100% 
 A cumulative total of 145 local raw materials suppliers receive consultation on process enhancement and quality improvement (Base year: 2016) 
 Encourage all major local raw materials suppliers and 75% of back-end packaging materials suppliers to participate in the  Taiwan Continuous Improvement Competition  60% to advance to the  nals 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Encourage innovation  
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 
 To maintain TSMC's  technology leadership, annual  R D expenditure amounts to  8.5% of revenue 
 Exceed 50,000 global patent  granted 
Promote workplace safety  
 Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR)   0.45 
 Disabling Severity Rate (SR)   6 
 All waste treatment vendors acquire ISO14001   or other international EHS Management certi cations 
 Completion rate of providing consultation to all vendors with high risk operations  and auditing health and safety standards in their facilities: 100% 
 Assist all contractors with high risk operations in obtaining ISO 45001 certi cation  for occupational health and safety management system 
 A cumulative total of 1,500 local suppliers participate in the Environmental,  Safety, and Health (ESH) training program 
Green product innovation  
 Decrease the Product  Environmental Footprint by  30% for each unit product  (Base year: 2010) 
Climate Action 
Implement strategies in response to  climate risks  
Enhance the resilience against climate risks  
Have more environmental   energy  conservation volunteers  
Responsible Consumption  and Production 
Reduce the output of industrial waste  
Promote a circular economy  
Improve recycling abilities  
Advocate for personal health  management  
 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit  of production (metric ton of carbon dioxide  equivalents (MTCO2e)  8-inch equivalent  wafer mask layers) by 40% (Base year: 2010) 
 0 days of production interruption due to  climate disasters 
 Environmental protection volunteers  provide over 1,200 services each year 
 A cumulative total of 300 suppliers observe  annual emergency response drills (Base  year: 2016) 
 Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer  (kilogram 8-inch equivalent wafer mask  layers)   0.22 
 Develop multiple types of electronics-grade  chemicals for TSMC's resource circulation  
 Reduce waste production among major  local suppliers by 35% (Base year: 2014) 
 Develop the ability to analyze 100%  of CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and  Reprotoxic) substances and help major  suppliers develop the same capabilities 
 Zero cases of occupational hazard caused  by exposure to chemicals 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Our Focuses  and Progress 
    Focus 1 Ethical Management 
    Focus 2 Innovation and Service 
    Focus 3 Responsible Supply Chain 
    Focus 4 Green Manufacturing 
    Focus 5 Inclusive Workplace 
    Focus 6 Common Good 
Ethical Management 
A Trustworthy Company 
With foundations built on the core value of Integrity, TSMC is a company that has always  governed itself with the highest standards. The ethical culture of TSMC employees is  continuously strengthened through comprehensive education and training. At the same  time, TSMC works hand in hand with its customers and supply chain to serve the mutual  bene t of the industry, and serves as a trustworthy partner to its stakeholders. 
47,504 People 
47,504 employees completed annual courses on Business Ethics and  Regulatory Compliance 100% 
All tier 1 suppliers signed the TSMC Guidance on Supplier Business Conduct and  conducted internal training at the completion rate of 100% 98.8% 
98.8% of suppliers agreed that TSMC promotion events for business ethics helped  improve their understanding of business ethics 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Reinforce Both Internally and Externally 
The management team of TSMC takes ethics and regulatory compliance seriously. It is re ected not only internally in the formulation of compliance policies and procedures, providing training and promotion activities, and periodic  assessments and declarations, but also externally through the participation of third parties. Furthermore, the culture of ethics and regulatory compliance is cultivated through e ective reporting channels and whistleblower protection. 
Completion rate of annual ethics and regulatory compliance training to  employees: 100% 99.6% completion rate for annual employee training on ethics  and regulatory compliance. A follow-up survey of employees that  completed training found that 85.9% were aware of reporting  channels, and 95.1% believed TSMC takes a serious approach in  implementing the TSMC Ethics Code as well as investigating and  reprimanding violations  Note 
No material regulatory violation (where  nes exceed NT 1 million) No material regulatory violation  Target: No material regulatory violation  No material regulatory violation 
Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Target: 98% completion rate of ethics and regulatory compliance training 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note: Interviewed employees from TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, TSMC North America, TSMC Europe,  TSMC Canada, TSMC Japan, TSMC Nanjing, TSMC China, TSMC Korea, and TSMC Technology, Inc. 
100 % completion rate for annual training on ethics and regulatory  compliance for managers and remain above 98% for all employees 
Integrity is the most important core value in TSMC s ethics and regulatory compliance system. The system is built using  
a sequence of regulatory identi cation, compliance policy and procedure formulation, implementation and execution,  
self-assessment and examination, as well as open reporting channels and whistleblower protection. The Company s  
management team acts in accordance with our Ethics Code, and fosters a robust ethics and regulatory compliance  
through the tone from the top. 
The Compliance Cycle 
Reinforce Both   Internally and   Externally Reporting and  Protection 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Regulatory  Identi cation and  Policy Creation 
Assessment and  Examination 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Implementation  and Execution 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Integrity is TSMC s most significant core value. The  
Company exercises self-discipline by complying  
with the highest ethical standards and substantially  
implements integrity, equality, and transparency  
in daily operations. TSMC holds zero tolerance  
for corrupt practices and strictly prohibits any  
behavior of bribery, fraud, blackmail, misuse,  
misappropriation of the Company s assets, or  
impairment of the Company s interest for personal  
gain. TSMC s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  
(the Ethics Code) is the guideline for implementing  
the aforementioned core values. Every employee  
is required to shoulder the weighty responsibilities  
of both maintaining high ethical standards and the  
Company s reputation.  
In view of the importance of compliance with the  
Ethics Code, the Company s management team  
periodically reports to the Board and the Audit  
Committee on ethics and regulatory compliance.  
TSMC formed an Ethics Committee, which  
oversees implementation of the Ethics Code as  
well as the investigation and disciplinary action  
of reported incidents. Meanwhile, TSMC enhances  
suppliers  understanding and compliance with  
the Company s Ethics Code through the  Supplier  
Code of Conduct  and the  TSMC s Anti-Corruption  
Commitment , bringing the core value of integrity  
into supply chains and demonstrating it in  
business behavior. 
Reinforce Both Internally  and Externally 
Regulatory Identi cation and Policy  Formulation 
By periodically tracking regulatory changes, TSMC  
identifies potential risks and impacts arising from  
regulatory changes. According to the results of  
regulatory identification, TSMC assesses whether  
internal regulations align with the changes to  
ensure that relevant policies and regulations  
are applicable and appropriate. In 2019, TSMC  
updated our privacy policy and cookies policy  
on our website and privacy notices to TSMC  
employees in alignment with the latest practices  
under the EU General Data Protection Regulation  
and related risk assessments. 
Implementation and Execution 
Implementing laws and relevant internal  
regulations is an important part of TSMC s ethics  
and regulatory compliance. All organizations,  
subsidiaries and employees are required to  
ensure their business operations are compliant  
with laws, Company policies, and regulations.  
Through an annual Control Self-Assessment (CSA),  
all employees examine their own compliance  
performance and are open for audit by the Internal  
Audit organization. 
Training and Promotion 
To raise employee awareness of ethics and  
regulatory compliance, TSMC provided various  
training courses for all employees with relevant  
job responsibilities based on laws and relevant  
internal regulations. The training courses  
included face-to-face courses and promotions as  
well as mandatory and elective online courses.  
Through posters around our facilities, guidelines  
and FAQs of regulation compliance on the  
Company s intranet, internal email distributions,  
and promotional articles, TSMC ensures that all  
employees have timely access to new information  
of regulations and have a deeply-ingrained  
awareness of various issues.  
Employee Completion Summary of the Annual  Ethics   Regulatory Compliance Course 
Note: TSMC (China) technicians, employees assigned abroad, and  employees with speci c responsibilities are provided with face-to- face training 
2018 2017 2016 2019 
    The training covered anti-corruption,  con ict of interest, reporting channels, and  whistleblower protection 
    Face-to-face Note and digital training 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
In 2019, TSMC provided regulatory compliance  
training courses such as ethics and  
anticorruption, prevention and reporting of  
conflict of interest, export control, proprietary  
information protection, intellectual property  
rights protection, privacy and personal  
information protection, conflict-free minerals,  
and antitrust laws to a total of 47,504 employees.  
TSMC also offered 38 face-to-face compliance  
training courses on subjects regarding  
export control and anti-trust laws for related  
departments. To ensure that production line  
managers are fully aware of TSMC regulations  
on conflict of interest, TSMC trained 22 trainers  
to give lectures to target trainees, production  
line managers in Taiwan factories, on this  
topic using a case studies approach  a total of  
1,134 production line managers completed this  
training. In 2020, TSMC plans to offer advanced  
online courses on four subjects   export control,  
insider training, corruption, and anti-trust   to  
further enhance TSMC employees  awareness in  
regulatory compliance. 
Supplier Management 
TSMC believes suppliers play key roles in the Company s  
realization of ethics and regulatory compliance. Through  
constant and concrete actions, TSMC demonstrates to its  
suppliers the determination to strictly adhere to the high  
ethical standards adopted in its Ethics Code, and ensures  
that suppliers follow accordingly. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Case Study 
Note 1: TSMC Fab 12A, Fab 12B, Fab 14A, Fab 14B, Fab 15A, Fab 15B, and  Advanced Backend Fabs Note 2: TSMC Headquarter, all Taiwan Fabs, and Advanced Backend Fabs 
Introduce Multiple Training Platforms for Technicians  to Enhance TSMC s Core Value of Integrity 
In 2019, TSMC o cially introduced the eLearning annual mandatory program to our technicians to increase the  
coverage of employee ethics training. TSMC customized the content of the courses in accordance with their daily  
work and responsibilities, emphasizing relevant ethics issues and regulations. For example, technicians whose  
jobs involve handling personal information of other employees need to be aware of information protection  
related laws to ensure that the course is e ective. Additionally, considering technicians work in shifts, the  
training is provided on  exible schedules and through multiple platforms such as face-to-face communication  
meetings, production notes, and e-learning. In 2019, the training completion rate for technicians was 99.7%,  
with a total of 15,622 technicians completing the training. 
Technician Ethics Training Completion Summary 
    Completion Rate: - (5,256) 
   Employee Communication  Meetings 
   Production Notes 
Taiwan Facilities Note 1 
    Completion Rate: 96.2%  (8,489   8,829) 
   Employee Communication  Meetings 
   Production Notes 
Taiwan Facilities Note 2 
For more details, please refer to TSMC s CSR website:   Introducing Multiple Training Platforms for Technicians to  Enhance TSMC s Core Value of Integrity  
    Completion Rate: 99.7%  (15,622   15,668) 
   Employee Communication  Meetings 
   Production Notes 
   eLearning Course  
Taiwan Facilities   Subsidiaries 
Note: Regular Suppliers are de ned as suppliers with transactions over NT  1 million in the last 18 months since the survey was issued. This is to help exclude suppliers without business dealings with TSMC 
Assessment and Examination 
To implement the Ethics Code and to avoid potential  
con icts, TSMC requires every newly-hired employee to  
complete a con ict of interest declaration upon arrival.  
Employees with speci c job grades or positions need to  
complete the declarations annually. In 2019, 17,668 TSMC  
employees completed the Annual Con ict of Interest  
Declaration to which all declarants agreed to comply  
with the  TSMC Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.   
Supplier Management at TSMC 
     Developed the "Suppliers Code  of Conduct" in accordance  with the "Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct"  and with reference to the UN  "Guiding Principles on Business  and Human Rights" and the  UN "Universal Declaration  of Human Rights", which are  recognized internationally 
     Six face-to-face forums were  held, with 888 out of 906  invited suppliers participating  in the forums, reaching a  participation rate of 98% 
Promotion of "Suppliers  Code of Conduct" 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Introduction of "Guidance on  Supplier Business Conduct" 
     According to the Supplier Code of  Conduct, TSMC provides suppliers  with Guidance on Supplier Business  Conduct, including topics such  as the business code of conduct,  con ict of interest, labor rights,  regulatory requirements of  environment, health and safety, as  well as having a reporting system 
     The Guidance on Supplier Business  Conduct was provided to 1,229  Tier 1 suppliers, with a participation  rate of 100%. 321 critical suppliers  and high-risk suppliers were invited  to face-to-face training, with 313  participating for a participation rate  of 97.5% 
Internal Audit performs an audit according to the annual  
audit plan approved by the Board of Directors and  
reports the results and follow-up improvement plans  
to the Board and management. Internal Audit will also  
administer the CSA and assess its ful llment by each  
fab division to ensure e ectiveness and for internal self- 
assessment. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
     Tracked supplier feedback  of TSMC's advocacy on  Suppliers Code of Conduct  through supplier survey 
     Issued surveys to 1,861  Regular Suppliers Note of  TSMC plants in Taiwan, and  received feedback from  1,405 of them, achieving a  75.5% response rate 
Conduct Supplier  Survey 
Promotion of "Suppliers  Code of Conduct" and TSMC  Reporting Channels 
     Based on surveys in 2019,  TSMC will further raise  awareness for reporting  channels among suppliers in  2020 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In addition, every two years, TSMC performs anonymous  
surveys to suppliers and employees in turn to  
periodically evaluate the e ectiveness of the promotion  
of ethics and regulatory compliance. To closely track  
employee feedback for ethics and regulatory compliance,  
TSMC introduced a brief Annual Employee Survey in  
2019 to increase the frequency of survey and adjust  
     Track awareness and  promotion e ectiveness for  supplier reporting channels  through supplier surveys 
Conduct Supplier  Survey 
promotion content based on the feedback. According to  
aforementioned surveys, 84.9% of suppliers and 85.9% of  
employees were aware of reporting channels, suggesting  
that there is still room for improvement. As a result,  
raising awareness further for reporting channels will be  
our focus in 2020. 
Survey Results 
 Annual Con ict of Interest Declaration 
 Annual Control Self-assessment 
 Supplier Survey 
 Annual Employee Survey  NEW 
2019 Actions 
98.8% of suppliers believed that TSMC's  promotion events for ethics and regulatory  compliance help suppliers understand  requirements of TSMC's Ethics Code 
98.3% of suppliers gave a positive  evaluation of TSMC sta 's ethics conduct  and no suppliers gave a negative evaluation 
95.1% of TSMC employees agreed that  TSMC takes a serious approach to the  implementation of the Ethics Code and the  investigations and disciplinary actions of  violations 
Historical Incidents 
Reporting and Protection 
TSMC establishes and discloses its Complaint Policy  
and Procedure for Certain Accounting   Legal  
Matters and pledges to comply with the relevant  
regulations in the policy. Open and multiple  
reporting channels are available for internal and  
external voices. All reported incidents collected  
from reporting channels inside or outside of  
TSMC are properly recorded and traced. TSMC  
also prevents any form of retaliation by providing  
proper protection for any individual who in good  
faith reports a suspected violation or participates  
in an investigation. The Ethics Committee examines  
major reported incidents that are investigated.  
In 2019, the Committee held six such meetings  
in total. TSMC investigates each individual case  
Note: For reported cases related to sexual harassment, please refer to  
Total Incidents Reported Incidents Related to Ethics 
Veri ed Incidents upon Investigation 
 Inclusive Workplace  in this Report 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: cases 
according to its characteristics through specific  
divisions, and treats every received case seriously,  
carefully, and effectively to ensure accuracy of  
the investigation. Investigated cases confirmed  
to be true will be disciplined respectively,  
including dismissal, termination of the business  
relationship, and legal prosecution as appropriate.  
The TSMC Ethics Committee will evaluate each  
case to determine whether it is an exceptional  
case or whether it results from systemic issues of  
insufficient awareness in ethics. This will allow  
TSMC to continue evaluating whether it is necessary  
to improve its management and internal control  
procedures. Activities such as emails to employees  
that disclose the violations and disciplinary  
Reporting Channels and Procedures 
External Parties 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Irregular Business Conduct Reporting 
Ombudsman System 
Audit Committee Whistleblower System 
Sexual Harassment Reporting Channel 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In 2019, we didn t receive any report related to  nance or  
accounting matters, or any material regulatory violation  
(where a  ne exceeds NT 1 million). 
In 2019, the incidents reported through the Audit  
Committee Whistleblower System, Ombudsman System,  
and Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System totaled  
205. Among them, 132 cases were related to employee  
relations, 47 cases were categorized as others (e.g. asking  
personal questions or private matters), and 26 cases  
were related to ethics. Only 2 incidents were  veri ed  
actions in each quarter are conducted to promote  
employees  awareness and avoid recurrence of  
similar incidents. 
Ethics Committee 
Sexual Harassment  Investigation Committee 
 Supervise investigation of  reported incidents 
 Determine disciplinary action  for violations 
 Supervise investigation of  reported incidents 
 Determine disciplinary  
upon investigation  and determined for disciplinary  
action by the Ethics Committee. One incident involved an  
employee who violated Company regulations by asking  
a supplier to book a hotel and prepay for the employee,  
and that employee received an admonition. The other  
incident involved an employee who committed a serious  
violation of Company ethics conduct by taking advantage  
of his her position to demand a personal loan from the  
supplier, and the employee was dismissed. In 2019,  
TSMC leveraged the two violations to strengthen ethics  
promotion for all employees in supplier-related activities. 
Improvement and Prevention 
 Periodically report investigation results and  related disciplinary action to the Board, Audit  Committee, and Management 
 Review cause of violations, identify risks, improve  management policies and internal controls,  and enhance promotion and training in order to  avoid recurrence of similar incidents 
Focus 2 Innovation and  Service 
An Innovation Enabler 
As the leader in dedicated IC foundry industry, TSMC has driven continued progress in global  technology through innovation. We care about our customer s feedback and have been  expanding our R D scale over the years. We insist on producing sustainable products with  high quality and low energy consumption, and have also established a mechanism to protect  our customer s proprietary information. We hope to provide our customers next generation  innovations and designs through leading technology and manufacturing excellence. 
3,600 Patents  10,000 Trade Secrets 
Protected intellectual property rights, with over 3,600 patents approved  globally and over 10,000 trade secrets registered 93% 
Maintained great working relationships, with customer satisfaction exceeding  90% for six consecutive years  15 Billion(NT ) 
Completed 49,356 quality improvement cases across departments, creating  NT 15 billion in value 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Sustainable Products 
Assess the environmental and social impact of each stage in the entire product life cycle and provide our customers with products that have low environmental, carbon, and water footprints 
Intellectual Property Protection 
Patent protection: continue to strengthen patent portfolio by keeping patent applications in sync with the Company s R D resources to make sure that all research achievements are fully protected Trade secret protection: enhance business operation and intellectual property innovation through trade secret registration and management that documents and consolidates the applications of the Company s competitive trade secrets 
Technology Leadership 
Continuous investment and e orts on leading-edge technology development to maintain TSMC s technology leadership in the semiconductor industry 
Decrease the Product Environmental Footprint by 30% for each unit product (the  base year is 2010) Note Finished the product life cycle assessment on VisEra and TSMC fabs  in Taiwan. Overseas subsidiaries are being built Target: Complete product life cycle assessment on all manufacturing fabs 
Exceed 50,000 global patent granted Nearly 6,500 global patent applications Target:  5,100 patents Exceed 5,300 global patent applications 
To maintain TSMC s technology leadership, annual R D expenditure amounts to  8.5% of revenue Successful risk production of industry-leading 5nm process  technology  Target: Risk production of 5nm, the 5 th generation FinFET CMOS platform  
Exceed 100,000 trade secrets registered Over 10,000 trade secret registrations  Target:  10,000 registrations Exceed 12,000 trade secret registrations 
Innovation Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
technology for SoC  
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Complete product life cycle assessment on all  manufacturing fabs Complete the establishment of a digitalized internal  environmental pro t   loss assessment system Complete environmental pro t   loss assessment on  suppliers (including inventory on 50 key suppliers) 
5nm process technology in volume production 
Note: A Product Environmental Footprint regards environmental pro t and loss  as a comprehensive indicator 
Innovation Management Framework 
In response to the rapidly evolving semiconductor  
industry, TSMC has been striving to build  
an innovative work environment that highly  
encourages innovation since its establishment. In  
the face of challenges imposed by existing and new  
competitors in 2019, TSMC continues to enhance  
the Company s leading technological competitive  
advantages through an internal incentive scheme  
for innovation. Employees are encouraged to  
bring forth a variety of innovations to enhance  
organizational innovation vitality. Meanwhile, TSMC  
also dedicates resources to helping our customers,  
the industry, and academia drive interdisciplinary  
innovation collaborations, including product  
innovation with our customers, technical talent  
innovation with research institutions, and green  
innovation with our suppliers. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC hosted an annual  Idea Forum competition  covering topics from  Operations, R D, Quality  and Reliability, Corporate  Planning Organization, and  Finance  with suggestions  from grassroots, Continual  Improvement Team (CIT),  Total Quality Excellence and  Innovation Conference. 
    Open Innovation Platform  
    Collaboration with World-class R D Institutes 
Encouraging Innovation      Innovative Approaches 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
       Innovative Values 
     Innovative Collaboration 
    TSMC University Programs 
   University Research Center 
   IC Layout Contest   Courses 
   University Shuttle Program 
    Technology Leadership 
    Intellectual Property Protection 
    Intelligent Precision 
    Manufacturing 
    Innovation Cases 
   STOP   FIX Innovation 
   World-Class Semiconductor  Green Tools 
   The First Semiconductor  Company to Receive AWS  Certi cation 
   The First Company to Recover  Fire ies 
   Major Waste Reductions in IPA 
   The Circular Economy "Three- Zero" Project 
TSMC continued to expand its scale of research and  
development in 2019. The total R D expenditure for  
the year was US  2.959 billion, a 4% increase from the  
previous year and 8.5% of the Company s total revenue.  
The R D team has grown to a team of 6,534 people, a 5%  
increase from the previous year. The scale of TSMC s R D  
investments is on par with top tech companies worldwide  
and even surpasses some of the company s respectful  
counterparts. 
Continuous Investment in R D  
R D Personnel (number of people) R D Expenditure (million US ) 
943 1,152 1,366 1,621 1,875 2,067 2,211 
Technology Leadership 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
To continue along the Moore s Law trend and to assist  
our customers in successful, fast product development  
and delivery, TSMC has been continuously investing  
in R D to o er industry-leading process technologies  
and design solutions. In 2019, following the transfer  
to manufacturing of the 7nm  technology node and  
the successful risk production of 5nm technology, the  
Company s R D organization continued to fuel the  
pipeline of technological innovation needed to maintain  
industry leadership. While TSMC s 3nm technology, the  
sixth generation of technology platform to make use of  
3D transistors continues full development, the Company  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2,651 2,850 2,959 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
has initiated the development of 2nm technology, a  
pioneering e ort within the semiconductor industry,  
and at the same time, is progressing in research and  
exploratory studies for nodes beyond 2nm. 
In addition to developing CMOS logic technology, TSMC  
is also involved in the development of a wide range of  
other semiconductor technologies to satisfy customer s  
demand for mobile SoC products and other applications,  
such as smartphones, high-performance computing, IoT,  
automotive electronics, etc. 
Specialty Technologies   Integrated Interconnect   Packaging Technologies 
3D IC and TSMC-SoIC  (System-on- Integrated Chips) 
Advanced Fan-Out and InFO  (Integrated Fan-Out) 
Power IC Bipolar-CMOS- DMOS (BCD) 
Embedded Flash Memory     
CMOS Image Sensor Technology     
 Completed process validation for System on Integrated Chips (SoIC ), an innovative  wafer-level package  technology 
 Achieved high-volume production of Gen-4 Integrated Fan-Out Package on Package  (InFO-PoP) for mobile processor packaging 
 Successful quali cation of Gen-5 InFO-PoP advanced packaging technology for mobile  applications and Gen-2 Integrated Fan-Out on Substrate (InFO-oS) for HPC applications 
 Developed 40nm BCD (Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS) technology   unique in the  industry   offering leading-edge 20-24V HV devices with full compatibility to  40nm ultra-low-power platform and integration of RRAM, in turn, enabling low  power, high integration and small footprint for high-speed communication  interface in mobile applications 
 Developed 28nm eFlash for high performance mobile computing and high performance  low-leakage platforms, which achieved technical quali cation for automobile  electronics and micro controller units (MCU) 
 Developed the latest generation CMOS image sensors of sub-micron pixel for mobile  applications and embedded 3D metal-insulator-metal (MiM) high-density capacitors for  global shutter and high dynamic-range sensor applications 
In 2019, TSMC maintained strong partnerships with  
world-class research institutions, including the  
Semiconductor Research Cooperation (SRC) in the U.S.  
and the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre (IMEC) in  
the Belgium. TSMC also continued to expand research  
collaboration with leading universities throughout the  
world for two grand purposes  the advancement of  
semiconductor technologies and the nurturing of talent  
for the future. 
Technology Leadership and Innovational Achievements 
Applications 
 22nm ultra-low leakage (22ULL) technology began  volume production to support IoT and wearable  devices applications. In addition, 22ULL low Vdd  (low operating voltage) solutions were ready. 
 16nm FinFET Compact RF (16FFC RF) technology  delivered the world's  rst FinFET device whose  fT can reach  300GHz, and also completed the  development of the world's  rst and best FinFET  device whose fmax can reach  400GHz. This high- performance and cost-e ective technology will be  used in many applications such as radar sensing  and AR VR to reduce chip power consumption and  die size and to enable SoC designs. 
 22ULL RF technology extended its support for  wireless LAN power ampli er devices and ultra- low leakage devices. This further supports  chip development for 5G mmWave mobile  communication and IoT applications. 
 22ULL embedded RRAM technology started risk  production. This technology can support various  applications such as IoT MCUs and AI memory  devices. 
 In work with customers, TSMC successfully  demonstrated Organic light-emitting diode (OLED)  on silicon panel technology on both 8-inch and  12-inch high voltage (HV) technologies, which  paves the way for AR VR suppliers to develop next  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
           16               (16FF )                   20         16FF        40%             50% 
 TSMC o ers the next generation global shutter  CMOS image sensor(CIS)and enhanced near  infrared (NIR) CIS technologies, making machine  vision systems safer, smaller, and consume less  power. 
 Successfully supported customer to deliver  the world's smallest CMOS-MEMS (micro- electromechanical systems) monolithic  accelerometer in wafer level chip scale packaging  (WLCSP) format, smaller than 1mm 2 in size. This  small footprint can help reduce the size and weight  of many IoT and wearable devices. 
 Successfully developed InFO-PoP (Integrated  Fan-Out Package-on-Package) technology which  integrates 7nm SoC (System-on-Chip) and DRAM  (dynamic random access memory) for advanced  mobile device applications and delivered several  customer products to market in high volume in  2019. 
 Successfully developed 16nm silicon in wafer  level chip scale packaging (WLCSP) technology  and delivered customer products to market in  high volume for IoT and high-end smartphone  applications. 
generation goggles for various industrial, medical  and consumer electronics applications.  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
                                    10        
     5nm FinFET technology led the foundry to successfully entered risk  production. 
     7nm FinFET plus technology entered volume production and led the  world to deliver customer products to market in high volume. 
CMOS Logic Technologies 
Specialty Technologies   Integrated Packaging Technologies for Conductors 
 The World's  rst 7nm automotive platform 
 Completed process validation for System on Integrated Chips (SoIC ),  an innovative wafer-level package technology 
 Achieved High-volume production of Gen-4 Integrated Fan-Out  Package on Package (InFO-PoP) for mobile processor packaging 
 Successful quali cation of Gen-5 InFO-PoP advanced packaging  technology for mobile applications and Gen-2 Integrated Fan-Out on  Substrate (InFO-oS) for HPC applications 
 Developed 40nm BCD (Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS) technology   unique  in the industry   o ering leading-edge 20-24V HV devices with full  compatibility to 40nm ultra-low-power platform and integration  of RRAM, in turn, enabling low power, high integration and small  footprint for high-speed communication interface in mobile  applications 
 Developed 28nm eFlash for high performance mobile computing and  high performance low-leakage platforms, which achieved technical  quali cation for automobile electronics and micro controller units  (MCU) 
 Developed the latest generation CMOS image sensors of sub-micron  pixel for mobile applications and embedded 3D metal-insulator- metal (MiM) high-density capacitors for global shutter and high  dynamic-range sensor applications 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
     N7  technology entered risk production, the  industry's  rst commercially available EUV  (extreme ultraviolet) process technology. 
 Foundry's  rst under panel optical   ngerprint sensor technology in production 
 Developed an industry's unique 90nm  BCD technology o ering leading-edge  5-16V power devices and dense logic  integration with competitive cost, as the  next generation mobile Power Management  IC (PMIC) solution. 
 Mass production launch of new generation  CMOS image sensors of sub-micron pixel  for mobile applications and development  of Ge-on-Si sensor for three dimensional  range sensing applications with superior  performance  
 High-volume production of InFO-PoP  Gen-3 for mobile application processor  packaging 
     Completed the transfer to  manufacturing of the industry  leading 7nm technology, the fourth  generation of technology to make  use of 3D FinFET transistors. 
 The world's leading volume  production of InFO PoP Gen-2  for mobile application processor  packaging 
 Launched 0.18   m third  generation BCD technology  resulting in the leading  performance quick charger and  wireless charger. 
 40nm high-voltage phase-2  technology readiness for both  LCD (Liquid-Crystal Display) and  OLED(Organic Light-Emitting  Diode) drivers 
When designing its product life cycle, TSMC factors  
in sustainability, hoping to reduce the environmental  
and social impact of its products. The Company puts  
continues e orts on assisting customers to achieve  
better energy e ciency throughout product design,  
material manufacturing, transportation, product  
manufacturing, testing, packaging, and other stages.  
In addition to its strong e orts in hazardous substance  
management, pollution prevention, and energy and  
resource conservation, TSMC also demands and assists  
its suppliers in thoroughly implementing environmental  
protection measures. The Company will continue to  
reduce the environmental, carbon, and water footprints  
throughout the life cycle of its semiconductor products. 
Value Environmental Pro t   Loss  and Strive to Reduce Environmental  Footprint 
In 2019, TSMC  nished the product life cycle, carbon  
footprint, and water footprint assessments on every  
manufacturing facility in Taiwan. The Company also  
achieved ISO14040, ISO14067, and ISO14046 certi cation.  
TSMC s overseas subsidiaries are scheduled to be assessed  
and certi ed by a third party in 2021. According to the  
results of product life cycle, carbon footprint, and water  
footprint assessments, approximately 80% of the overall  
environmental impact derives from wafer fabrication.  
The secondary source of impact results from raw material  
production. The environmental impact of transportation  
is relatively mild. To learn more about TSMC s e orts in  
reducing environmental impact, please refer to the  Green  
Manufacturing  section of this report. 
Sustainable Products 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Environmental  Impact  Management 
Social Impact  Management 
Environmental  Social Impact Considerations for TSMC Product Life Cycles  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Raw Material  Suppliers TSMC Wafer Fabs Testing and  Packaging Facilities 
Raw Material  Production 
 Occupational safety and  health management 
   Establish a management  system 
   Perform control measures 
   Implement risk  management 
 Greenhouse gas reduction 
 Energy and water  conservation 
 Waste minimization,  recycling and reuse, proper  disposal 
Wafer  Manufacturing 
   Ethic code of conduct 
   Labor right protection 
 Pollution prevention 
 Hazardous substance  management 
 Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct 
 Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Testing and  Packaging 
 Product hazardous substance  management 
 Product carbon footprint  water  footprint assessment 
 Product life cycle assessment 
 Assist customers in applying  mobile computing and wireless  communication 
 Assist customers in manufacturing  micro-electrical-mechanical- system (MEMS) chips to improve  human health and safety 
TSMC Customers  and End Customers 
ICT Product  Assembly and  Sales 
Consumers, Industrial  Customers and Other Users 
 Energy conservation  induced by the use of  products with higher  performance and energy  e ciency 
 Increased convenience- of-living through the  application of mobile  computing and wireless  communication 
 Improved human health  and safety through MEMS  chip innovation 
ICT Product   Use 
Waste Management and Recycling Vendors 
Waste  Management  and Recycling 
   Ethic code of conduct 
   Labor right protection 
 Pollution prevention  and control 
 Waste recycling,  reuse, and proper  disposal 
 Occupational  safety and health  management 
 Responsible Business  Alliance Code of  Conduct 
In 2019, TSMC collaborated with Tunghai  
University on a research about each TSMC  
manufacturing fab s energy and resources  
consumption, greenhouse gas emission, exhaust,  
wastewater, waste disposal, and other factors  
involved throughout the product life cycle. An  
assessment was conducted on the impact to  
external environment and human health, i.e., the  
environmental profit and loss (EP L) assessment.  
Results show that the following factors, from most  
significant to least significant, have the greatest  
impact on the environment: greenhouse gas  
emissions (please refer to page 102 of this report),  
air pollutant emissions (primarily from ammonia),  
and effluent (primarily from heavy metals). TSMC  
has already implemented countermeasures to  
tackle ammonia emissions with early results  
yielding significant improvement  to learn more,  
please refer to the  Air Pollution Control  section  
of this report. As for the treatment of heavy  
metal in the effluent, in addition to continuing  
Wafer Product Carbon Footprint Assessment   (eq average of an 8-inch wafer) 
Manufacturing 83% 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Raw Material  17% 
Wafer Product Water Footprint Assessment   (eq average of an 8-inch wafer) 
the existing practice of copper reduction and  
recycling, the Company has newly established  
the cobalt recycling and treatment system  
in advanced manufacturing fabs in 2019. For  
more information, please refer to the  Water  
Management  section of this report. 
Taking EP L as a driver to enhance sustainable  
management internally, TSMC introduced an  
EP L assessment tool in the Company s Total ESH  
Management (TSM). The system consolidates the  
annual environmental data of each manufacturing  
facility and calculates the EP L of the year to  
serve as a reference for internal management  
and improvement. The research project in  
collaboration with Tunghai University will  
continue into 2020 on a larger scale to involve  
raw material suppliers as TSMC seeks to work  
with supply chain partners to find opportunities  
for reducing environmental impacts. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Manufacturing 77% 
Raw Material  23% 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Wafer Product Life Cycle Assessment   (eq average of an 8-inch wafer) 
Photochemical  Ozone Formation 
Climate Change 
Human Toxicity  Assessment on  Cancer Risks 
Ionizing  Radiation  (Human Health) 
Human Toxicity  Assessment  on Non-Cancer  Risks 
Ionizing  Radiation  (Ecosystem) 
Particulate  Matter 
Ozone  Depletion 
0.18 16.03 83.79 
0.38 14.88 84.75 
13.27 58.08 28.65 
22.01 68.06 9.93 
kg CFC-11 eq 
kg PM2.5 eq 
kBq U235 eq 
kg NMVOC eq 
11.30 86.61 2.08 
20.98 78.55 0.46 
31.17 67.42 1.41 
47.44 30.61 21.95 
Water Resource  Depletion 
Raw Material Manufacturing Transportation Unit: % 
Terrestrial  Eutrophication 
Freshwater  Eutrophication 
Marine  Eutrophication 
Mineral, Fossil    Renewable  Resource  Depletion 
Acidi cation 
Freshwater  Ecotoxicity 
16.16 83.78 0.06 
21.23 78.14 0.63 
21.40 76.95 1.66 
20.86 77.80 1.34 
kg C de cit 
m 3 water eq 
24.34 74.95 0.72 
26.07 70.71 3.22 
74.11 25.85 0.04 
84.41 13.84 1.74 
Semiconductor Applications Contribute to Global Energy Conservation 
Note: The results above are based on the assumption that TSMC s technological development can have such impacts on global electricity consumption. The  numbers are not the actual energy conservation  gures contributed by TSMC 
Help Customers Create Energy- e cient   Sustainable Products 
Through innovation and advanced manufacturing  
technology, TSMC continues to introduce more advanced  
energy-saving semiconductor products to enable  
ICT applications with better energy e ciency. In the  
meantime, TSMC is also extending applications of smart  
buildings, smart manufacturing, and smart grids. When  
global consumers or enterprises are continuously using  
a variety of products, which are produced on TSMC s  
advanced semiconductor manufacturing process, the  
outstanding energy e ciency will signi cantly reduce  
global electricity consumption. 
 Leader of innovation  and advanced  process technologies 
 Provider of cutting- edge technologies 
 Producer of more  advanced, energy- e cient products 
TSMC's Role 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 ICT products of better  energy e ciency 
 Extended  applications of smart  buildings, smart  manufacturing, and  smart grids 
IC Products Product Power  Consumption Impact on  Power 
To learn more about the impacts of technological  
advancement of semiconductor technologies on global  
electricity consumption, TSMC collaborated with the  
Industry, Science and Technology International Strategy  
Center (ISTI) and deduced that technological advancement  
of semiconductor products and applications can enhance  
the energy e ciency of computers, communication  
networks, data centers, power plants, and improve the  
global energy e ciency eventually. In 2019, ISTI research  
results show that the use of communications, data  
processing, and industrial electronic end-products can  
reduce electricity consumption in the U.S. by 197,000  
GWh and Europe by 145,000 GWh in 2025. The  ndings  
suggest that TSMC s endeavor in advanced technology and  
innovative power-saving product development can bring  
substantial contribution on energy conservation worldwide. 
 Enhance energy  e ciency of computers,  communication  networks, data centers,  and power plants 
 The adoption of end- electronic products like  communications, data  processing, and industrial  products contribute to  energy conservation on a  national or regional level 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Electricity  consumption  reduced by 0.197  trillion kWh (United  States) Note 
 Electricity  consumption  reduced by 0.145  trillion kWh (Europe) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Since the aforementioned assumption requires  
further verification, TSMC will continue its  
collaboration with ISTI in researching about how  
semiconductor product applications that can  
contribute to energy conservation. The Company  
will further categorize its products in order to more  
precisely estimate TSMC s contribution to energy  
conservation in Taiwan and worldwide.  
More Advanced, More Capable, and  More Energy-e cient Electronic  Products 
As the world s most trusted dedicated foundry service  
provider, TSMC is consistently  rst to provide next- 
generation, leading-edge foundry technologies.  
The Company also o ers comprehensive specialty  
technologies and excellent frontend and backend  
packaging integration capabilities. With TSMC s  
manufacturing technologies, customers can unleash  
their design innovations in a wide range of applications  
including smartphone, high performance computing  
(HPC), Internet of Things (IoT), automotive, digital  
consumer electronics and so on. In light of the drastic  
change of global climate and the evolution of energy  
structure and technology development, chip products  
with stronger performance and higher power e ciency  
has become signi cant to electric product development.  
TSMC rigorously drives the semiconductor process  
technology development with higher density and reduced  
power consumption, which will provide customer with  
the leading advantages on performance, power, and area  
(PPA), helping customers produce more advanced, more  
capable, and more energy-saving products. 
Note 1: The logic chip SRAM IO (Input Output) ratio, which a ects die size  and power consumption, was re-aligned Note 2: Source: TSMC 
Chip Die Size Cross-Technology  Comparison  
One remarkable example is that Ambiq Micro delivered its  
Apollo3 Blue wireless SoC in 2019, setting a new standard  
in energy e ciency for battery-powered endpoint  
devices. Leveraging both Ambiq Micro s Subthreshold  
Power Optimized Technology (SPOT TM) platform and  
TSMC s 40nm ultra low power (ULP) low operating  
power (low-Vdd) technology in TSMC s IoT platform, the  
Apollo3 Blue with TurboSPOT TM brings groundbreaking  
levels of energy e ciency for battery-powered devices  
by increasing the computational capabilities of the ARM  
Cortex M4F core to 96MHz while lowering the active  
power consumption to less than six microamperes per  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Die size is shrinking as  line width shrinks 
16FFC    12FFC 
megahertz (6uA MHz). Apollo3 Blue s unprecedented  
energy e ciency and superb computing power make  
it a key enabler for true intelligence to mobile, battery- 
powered endpoint devices, including IoT, hearable,  
wearable, and voice-activated products. 
In total, TSMC deployed 272 distinct process technologies,  
and manufactured 10,761 products for 499 customers in  
2019 to continue to bring signi cant contribution to the  
advancement of modern society. 
Chip Total Power Consumption Cross- Technology Comparison   
Note 1: The logic chip SRAM IO (Input Output) ratio, which a ects die size  and power consumption, was re-aligned Note 2: Source: TSMC 
N55LP  (1.2V) 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
N40LP  (1.1V) 
N28HPM  (0.9V) 
More power is saved as  line width shrinks 
N16FFC    12FFC  (0.8V) 
10 nm  (0.75V) 
7 nm  (0.75V) 
5 nm  (0.75V) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Collaborates with Ambiq Micro to Unleash Innovation 
 Provide 40ULP  Low Vdd process  technology 
TSMC's Role 
 Help Ambiq Micro  deliver Apollo3  Blue wireless SoC 
IC Products Product Power  Consumption Impact on  Power 
Ambiq Micro s Apollo 3 Blue wireless SoC (Photo courtesy of Ambiq Micro)  
 ARM Cortex M4F  core computational  capabilities increased  to to 96MHz 
 ARM Cortex M4F  core active power  consumption  reduced to   6uA  MHz 
 Increase energy  e ciency for IoT,  hearable, wearable,  and voice-activated  products 
Social Contribution by TSMC Foundry Services 
7nm FinFET plus (N7  ) technology entered volume production in 2019 and led to  deliver customer products to market in high volume. N7  technology is the world's  rst  commercially available extreme ultraviolet (EUV) enabled foundry process technology. Its  success demonstrates TSMC's world-leading capabilities in EUV volume production. 
7nm FinFET plus (N7  ) technology entered volume production in 2019 and led to customer  products delivery in high volume. N7  technology is the world's  rst commercially available extreme  ultraviolet (EUV) enabled foundry process technology. Its success demonstrates TSMC's world- leading capabilities in EUV volume production. 
 Innovative TSMC process technology helps chips achieve faster computing speeds in a smaller die  area, leading to smaller form factors of electronic devices 
 TSMC SoC technology integrates more functions into one chip, reducing the total number of chips  in electronic devices, resulting in a smaller system form factor 
 New TSMC process technology helps chips consume less energy so the mobile devices will have a  longer battery life 
 TSMC helps unleash more convenient wireless connectivity such as 3G   4G and WLAN   Bluetooth,  meaning people can communicate more e ciently and work anytime and anywhere, signi cantly  improving the mobility of modern society 
Unleash Customers  Chip Innovations  that Enhance Mobility and Convenience 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Major  Breakthroughs 
Latest  Achievements 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Sensor makes all machines smarter, safer and more user and environmentally friendly. Optical, acoustic,  motion, and environment sensors are mostly made with either CMOS image sensor (CIS) or micro- electromechanical systems (MEMS) technologies. TSMC continues to put substantial e ort into developing  new CIS and MEMS technologies to enable customers to innovate new products for new applications to  bringing people a more convenient, healthy, and safe lifestyle. 
TSMC successfully supported customer to deliver the world's smallest CMOS-MEMS monolithic  accelerometer in chip scale packaging (CSP) format, smaller than 1mm 2 in size in 2019. This small  footprint can help reduce the size and weight of many IoT and wearable devices. 
 Extend CIS production applications from traditional RGB (red, green, blue) sensing to 3D depth  sensing, optical  ngerprint, and NIR machine vision, etc. 
 Extend MEMS production applications from traditional motion sensing to microphone, bio-sensing,  medical ultrasound actuators and more 
 Adopted for consumer electronics, smartphones and other electronic devices to make life more  convenient 
 Adopted for advanced medical treatments and preventative health care applications to improve  human health 
 Adopted for automotive electronics to improve car safety systems 
Unleash Customer s Innovations to  Improve Human Health and Safety 
To ensure TSMC s freedom in business operation,  
strengthen its industry leadership, and protect its  
leading-edge technologies which are the fruits of  
TSMC s countless R D e orts, the Company has set  
forth IP capitalization and management strategies in  
alignment with its business operation objectives and  
R D resources. TSMC has also established a mechanism  
to generate company value from intellectual property.  
In addition, the Company continues to improve its IP  
portfolio quality, reduce maintenance costs, and invest  
in IP portfolio and IP management systems to assure the  
technology leadership and maximize business pro ts. 
Patent Protection Mechanism 
Internally, TSMC establishes a diversi ed reward  
system to encourage employees are encouraged to  le  
patent applications for their inventions as diversity and  
innovation in design are highly valued and encouraged.  
The  the Company also has a systematic mechanism for  
patents and intellectual propertyset up a robust patent  
and IP management alongsystem with a hierarchical  
review process to monitor the quantity and quality of  
employee patent applications. In 2019, TSMC held many  
Innovation-driven events for employees IP promotion  
activities including the Patent Campaign (with over 1,700  
inventions submitted), Online Quiz Game (with nearly  
3,500 participants), and Patent Week (with a 1,400-people  
turnout). These activities have successfully encouraged  
TSMC employees to  le their inventions (493 employees  
received the U.S. patents for the  rst time at TSMC,  
Intellectual Property Protection 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
contributing to a total of 375 patents. 8 proli c inventors  
contributed to 885 U.S. patents.) 
Externally, TSMC has built close ties with both domestic  
and international patent o ces through technical  
exchanges, assisting patent examiners in better  
understanding the technical content of TSMC and  
consequently accelerating the patent examination  
process in order to obtain high quality patent  
protection. In addition, TSMC has been assisting the  
government in building a sound and comprehensive  
intellectual property protection system by regularly  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Patent  Pro ling 
Patent  Generation 
Four Strategies of IP  Management 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
sharing corporate experiences and suggestions on  
patent system and review e ciency. 
Four Strategies of IP Management 
TSMC s IP management measures are implemented  
under four strategies, patent pro ling, patent generation,  
patent portfolio expansion, and patent portfolio  
management. With its review mechanism, reward system,  
and education and training programs, the Company is  
dedicated to protecting its research and development  
results and upholding its industry-leading position. 
Portfolio  Expansion 
Portfolio  Management 
Achievements in Both Quantity and Quality 
     Highest patent approval rate, reaching 99%,  among the top 100 patent holders in the US in 2019 
 Over 55,000 global patent applications accumulated 
 Nearly 6,500 global patent applications  led in 2019 
  Top 10 patent applicant in the U.S. in 2019 
  No. 1 in Taiwan patent applications for four straight  years 
 Over 39,000 global patents accumulated 
 Received over 3,600 global patents issued in 2019,  including over 2,300 U.S. patents 
For more details, please refer to TSMC CSR website: TSMC  
Creates a Global Strategic Patent Portfolio: Continue  
Pioneering in Top 10 of U.S. Patent Assignees for the third  
Consecutive Year 
Number of Patent Applications 
Number of Granted Patents 
Patent Quality 
Trade Secret Protection 
In order to comprehensively and e ectively manage  
intellectual property innovation, TSMC records and  
integrates applications for trade secrets that contribute  
to the company s technology leadership, manufacturing  
excellence, and customer trust.  
In 2019, TSMC introduced advanced technology like  
Intelligent Automation (IA) and Arti cial Intelligence (AI)  
into the Trade Secret Registration and Management  
System and continued to strengthen the company s  
competitiveness. The system features prompt and e ective  
data analysis and assistance for technology developers.  
In addition, the system is synchronized with other internal  
Enabling prompt collection of  
relevant evidence in cases of  
Monitoring and prevention of trade  
misappropriation  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
secret leakage   Strategic Management of IP  
Advantages of  the Trade Secret  Registration and  Management System  
Enhancing  Competitiveness 
Portfolio  
systems like human resources system and contract system  
to perform joint applications. 
TSMC encourages its employees to keep trade secret in  
a centralized management system. In order to increase  
the quality and quantity of trade secrets, TSMC grants the  
annual Golden Trade Secret Awards to its employees to  
recognize their contribution. As of 2019, TSMC had given  
1,335 awards to more than 4,600 employees who had  
registered trade secrets. In addition, the number of trade  
secrets registered has been increasing every year since  
the establishment of the Trade Secret Registration and  
Management System in 2013. As for 2019, over 10,000  
trade secrets were registered, which set a new record in  
the Company s history. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Integration with other systems for  
invention, technology innovation  
maximum synergy  
Detailed online records of  
or improvement  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Intelligent Precision Manufacturing 
As world s largest semiconductor foundry service  
provider, manufacturing excellence is the cornerstone  
of TSMC s competitive advantage. TSMC is the industry s  
 rst automated manufacturer. Amid the increasing  
complexity of advanced manufacturing and customer  
demand on quality, TSMC has taken a further step  
to create an intelligent manufacturing environment  
featuring self-diagnosis and self-feedback capabilities.  
The Company has also applied AI to wafer fabrication  
and constructed a development platform with machine  
learning technology. Through constant Fab Alignment  
and benchmarking, TSMC has successfully reached  
Trade Secret Registrations 2017-2019 
Number of Trade Secret Registered 
For more details, please refer to TSMC CSR website: TSMC Adopts Intelligent Automation (IA) and Arti cial Intelligence (AI)  Technologies for Trade Secret Management Innovation 
a high level of consistency in quality throughout  
di erent fabs (Fab Matching), further strengthening the  
Company s competitive advantages.  
In 2019, dedicated to AI and knowledge integration,  
TSMC conducted industry-academia exchanges with  
Harvard University, University of Cincinnati, and the  
Ohio State University to introduce Industry 4.0 and  
Industrial AI to the semiconductor industry. Experts  
and engineers at the production line are called upon  
to jointly build a knowledge base for engineering  
analysis and to apply manufacturing experiences  
to AI intelligent models. It e ectively improves the  
precision of intelligent models and allows for parameter  
adjustments in a dynamic manufacturing process. While  
securing wafer quality consistency, the Company also  
invests heavily in AI talent cultivation and acquisition.  
As of 2019, TSMC boasts a team of nearly 1,000 IT  
professionals and 200 experts on machine learning.  
To ful ll its commitment to manufacturing excellence  
and quality, TSMC has enhanced the production  
capacity of 7nm advanced manufacturing process  
by 2% in 2019. The defect parts per million (DPPM)  
of automotive products was signi cantly reduced to  
10 ppm in only three and a half years. With intelligent  
precision manufacturing, TSMC is able to continuously  
inject innovation vitality into the global IC industry and  
to be a trusted partner for customers to rely on for years  
Manufacturing Excellence 
Automatic Material Handling System 
Equipment  Automation 
Dispatching  Automation 
     First automated 12-inch GIGAFAB  facilities in the industry built 
     100% automated wafer fabrication achieved 
Automatic Manufacturing (2000 2010) Intelligent Manufacturing (2011-2019) 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Automation Launched Enhanced Automation 
2013 - 2016 2000 2010 2017 2019 2011 2018 
     Productivity of employees at mature manufacturing process  foundries increased by 10% to 15% annually 
Wafer Big Data   Infrastructure 
     Wafer Big Data Infrastructure constructed 
     Analysis results produced by arti cial intelligence  introduced to the manufacturing system 
Intelligent  Manufacturing Launched 
Integrated Data  Platform 
High  Performance  Computing 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
  Engaging Experts in the Development   of an AI Model               Machine   Learning   Development   Platform 
     Big Data Analytics for Semiconductor Manufacturing  Contest held for three consecutive years in collaboration  with MoST and NTHU, with 300 teams from 50 universities 
     Big data courses collaborated and improved together with  NTU, NTHU, and NCTU, providing both theoretical and  practical teaching in class 
Cross- eld Talent Development 
 Analysis Target 
 Manufacturing Process Characteristics 
 Manufacturing Process Interdependence 
 Data Preprocessing 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Expert Knowledge Base 
     Machine learning development platform  constructed to accelerate development and  expand scale of application 
     A program to cultivate 300 machine learning  experts launched 
Enhanced Intelligent  System 
     Research pool consisting of 1,000 IT experts and 300 machine learning  experts built 
     E orts to develop advanced technologies and potential applications  through the intelligent system continued 
Scheduling and Dispatching 
People Productivity 
Equipment Productivity 
Process   Tool Control 
Quality Defense 
Enhanced Intelligent  Pool 
      Engage experts and professionals in the  development of an AI model that integrates  human knowledge and computer AI 
     Conduct interdisciplinary exchanges  with Harvard University, University of  Cincinnati, and Ohio State University on  the latest AI applications and development  in semiconductor manufacturing 
AI and Knowledge  Integration 
Manufacturing  Excellence 
Open Innovation Platform  
TSMC s Open Innovation Platform  promotes industry  
innovation for a comprehensive design infrastructure in  
the semiconductor design community by TSMC and its  
OIP alliance partners in EDA development, Intellectual  
Property (IP) implementation in order to achieve design  
  process technology co-optimization, also to provide  
backend packaging   test services and the enablement  
of IC designs in the Cloud. 
In 2019, TSMC further teamed up with OIP alliance  
partners by combining EDA tool certi cation and OIP- 
VDE (Virtual Design Environment) in the Cloud, to ensure  
customers can more securely and e ciently work on their  
product design   innovation, thus shorten the design  
cycle and deliver to market faster to gain competitive  
advantages in business opportunities. 
In 2019, TSMC and OIP ecosystem partners continue  
to provide comprehensive solutions to address the  
market demands for Mobile, HPC, Automotive and IoT  
design applications. Furthermore, there are continuous  
developments of new solutions to enhance Power,  
Performance and Area (PPA) on advanced   specialty  
process technologies, as well as comprehensive RF  
design platform for emerging markets, such as 5G design  
applications. The wide range of 3DIC ecosystem that  
covers both technology   application aspects is aimed  
to unleash customer s innovation to e ciently design  
and successfully roll out more sophisticated high quality  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
In addition to industry collaborations, TSMC also  
provides long-term support to universities around the  
world, including National Taiwan University, National  
Chiao Tung University and National Tsing Hua University,  
helping them to conduct silicon validation of their  
research through TSMC University Shuttle Program.  
TSMC's Five OIP Alliances 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
EDA Alliance 
Value Chain Aggregator Alliance 
Design Center Alliance 
 The foundry segment's earliest and  most comprehensive Electronic Design  Automation (EDA) certi cation program,  delivering timely design tool enhancement  required by new process technologies 
 Integrate design enablement building  blocks and provide speci c services at  each link in the IC value chain, including  IP development, backend design, wafer  manufacturing, assembly, and testing 
 O ering services ranging from system-level  front-end design to back-end physical test  implementation 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Through the collaboration within OIP VDE from Cloud  
Alliance, TSMC and the University of Tokyo announced an  
alliance in 2019 that TSMC will provide its CyberShuttle   
service to the Systems Design Lab at the University of  
Tokyo to jointly research semiconductor technologies for  
the future of computing. 
In 2019, TSMC and Arm, the High Performance Computing  
(HPC) industry leaders, announced an industry- rst 7nm  
silicon-proven chiplet system leveraging TSMC s Chip- 
on-Wafer-on-Substrate (CoWoS ) advanced packaging  
solution. This establishes a robust foundation for future  
production-ready infrastructure of System on Chip (SoC)  
solutions. 
IP Alliance 
Cloud Alliance 
 The foundry segment's largest, most  comprehensive and robust silicon-proven  Intellectual Properties (IP) portfolio 
 O ering OIP Virtual Design Environment (OIP VDE),  lowering entry barriers of Cloud adoption for the  customers of all sizes to speed up silicon design in  a big way by fully utilizing the high performance  compute available in the Cloud 
Comprehensive Solutions in Advanced,  Specialty and 3D IC Technologies 
 O ering System on Integrated Chips (SoIC),  Wafer on Wafer (WoW), Integrated FanOut (InFO),  Chip on Wafer on Substrate (CoWoS),  etc 
 In 7nm, 6nm, 5nm and smaller process nodes 
 In Ultra-Low Power (ULP)  Ultra-Low Leakage  (ULL), RF, Analog, Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS (BCD),  Non-Volatile Memory (NVM), High Voltage (HV),  Sensor, etc 
3D IC Technology 
Advanced Technology 
Specialty Technology 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
OIP Objectives 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Collaborating with EDA and IP partners to 
 Embed TSMC silicon technology into their  products and services 
TSMC OIP Partner Customer 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Technology Partner Product Customer Design 
Help Customers 
 Access TSMC technology earlier in the design cycle 
 Increase correlation between EDA tools and TSMC silicon 
 Attain optimum PPA (Power, Performance, Area) in TSMC and third party IPs  targeted for TSMC silicon 
TSMC University Programs 
    University Research Center 
TSMC has established research centers in  
collaboration with top universities in Taiwan  
and dedicated research funds to encourage  
university professors to conduct groundbreaking  
semiconductor research projects. As the  
research centers strive to develop leading- 
edge technologies in semiconductor devices,  
material science, manufacturing process, and IC  
University Research Center   Industry-Academia Joint Development Project 
Note: Maximum amount granted to undergraduate program is NT 100,000, NT 120,000 to a graduate program, and NT 360,000 to a PhD program. Scholarship was granted to 78 undergraduate students, 20 graduate students, and 51 PhD students in 2019 
University Research Center 
Industry-Academia Joint Development  Project 
Collaboration Project University Bene ciary Collaboration Details Dedicated Resources 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
    National Chiao Tung University 
    National Taiwan University 
    National Cheng Kung University 
    National Tsing Hua University 
    7 universities in Taiwan and 15  universities overseas 
7 Universities in Taiwan  
National Chiao Tung University, National Taiwan University, National Cheng Kung University, National Tsing Hua University, National Sun Yat-sen University, National Taiwan University of  Science and Technology, and Chang Gung University 
15 Overseas Universities   
Massachusetts Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, University of California, San Diego, Georgia Institute of Technology, Harvard University, University of Michigan,  University of Wisconsin-Madison, University of California, Berkeley, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, University of Texas at Dallas, Cambridge University, Tyndall National Institute,  Ireland, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, and Tohoku University 
design, they are also incubating talents for the  
field of semiconductors. Up to 2019, more than  
178 professors and 2,500 outstanding students  
in areas including electronic engineering,  
physics, material science, chemistry, chemical  
engineering, and mechanical engineering joined  
TSMC s university research centers. Moreover,  
TSMC has also launched  TSMC Semiconductor  
Program  for the first time in 2019, and attracted  
over 200 students to enroll. Jointly developed  
by TSMC and the university, the courses are  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
    Undergraduate students 
    Graduate students 
    PhD students 
    Professors O er research funds to encourage university professors to  propose new semiconductor research programs and incubate  semiconductor talents 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
tailored to narrow the gap between industries  
and academics, and strengthen talent quality as  
well as competitiveness in the industry. TSMC will  
also continue to work with other universities to  
develop comprehensive semiconductor programs  
on device integration, process module, and  
equipment engineering. 
In addition to investing in university research  
centers, TSMC also conducts strategic research  
projects with universities in Taiwan and overseas  
Provide research assistantship to encourage outstanding  students to focus on the study of semiconductor devices,  materials, manufacturing processes, and IC design without   nancial issues 
through industry-academia joint development  
projects. A variety of innovative research topics  
cover technologies in transistors, conductors,  
photomasks, materials, simulations, and special  
processes. In 2019, TSMC has collaborated with  
7 universities in Taiwan and 15 universities  
overseas. 73 professors were involved in a total  
of 79 joint development projects with TSMC,  
with annual research funds exceeding NT 113  
million. As of 2019, more than 100 U.S. patent  
applications had been filed. 
    Total of NT 15.36 million research  assistantship granted in 2019 
    149 students bene ted from the grants  Note 
    NT 111.3 million 
Case Study 
Launch Semiconductor Programs in Collaboration with Top Universities to  Incubate Semiconductor Talent 
To foster a vibrant environment for semiconductor talents in Taiwan and further  attract more outstanding students to join the semiconductor industry, TSMC launched   TSMC-NTHU  Semiconductor Program in collaboration with National Tsing Hua  University in 2019. More than 200 students enrolled in the elective courses. TSMC  Semiconductor Programs in collaboration with National Taiwan University, National  Cheng Kung University, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, and  National Taipei University of Science and Technology are scheduled to open for  student enrollment in 2020. 
First Program in 2019 O ers Outstanding Students with  Internships, Job Interviews   Better Compensation 
The TSMC Semiconductor Program is designed to enhance the professional  competencies required for talents in the  eld of advanced process research and  
TSMC-NTHU Semiconductor Program Course Plan 
Advanced Device Development IC Technology Material Analysis Technology 
1. Semiconductor Devices Physics 2. Introduction to Solid-State Physics 3. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics    4. Semiconductor Devices Design and Simulation 5. Measurements of Device 6. Electric Circuits 7. Engineering Mathematics 1 8. Engineering Mathematics 2 9. Neuromorphic Computing and AI Application 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Device Next-Generation Device  Development 
1. Semiconductor Processing 2. Electronics 1  3. Electronics 2 4. Electromagnetism 5. Applied Photonics 6. Introduction to Integrated Circuit Design 7. Electronic Thin Film 8. Application of Plasma Engineering 9. Silicon Processing Technology for Microelectronics 10. Experimental Design and Statistics Applications 11. Special Topic on Advanced Process and Integration 12. Semiconductor Experiment 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Processing Advanced Processing and  Integration Technology 
development. Programs are developed on two major tracks,  device integration   and  process module,  and o ers 24 courses covering next-generation device  development, advanced process integration technology, material analysis  technology, and more.  
In addition to launching course on campus, TSMC also o ers prioritized internship  opportunities and guaranteed interviews for full-time job openings in the Company  to students who have completed the program. Di erentiated compensation package  is also o ered as an incentive to join TSMC. The program is an e ort to not only  incubate more talent in the  eld of advanced process research and development for  semiconductor industry, but also to set an example for more companies to follow. It  is hoped that with this cooperation, the gap between industry and academics could  be minimized and domestic talent s quality and competitiveness to be enhanced  for the industry. 
1. Coherent X-ray and Electron Di raction Microscopy    2. Applications of Synchrotron X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy 3. Materials Analysis 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Material Failure Analysis of Integrated  Circuits 
TSMC s programs are like the guideline for  dummies. Students with no ideas about  their own future won t get lost along the  path of the programs. 
Cheng-Yuan Chiu 
Student of the Department of Engineering and System  Science, National Tsing Hua University 
This is the  rst time for a domestic  leading company and universities to work  together for systematic programs. NTHU  loves to see this kind of cooperation to  reach a win-win result, in which students  can  nd best jobs, and TSMC can recruit  best talents. 
Sinn-Wen Chen 
Senior Vice President, National Tsing Hua University 
For more details, please refer to TSMC CSR website:   TSMC and Top Universities Jointly Launch Semiconductor  Programs to Incubate Semiconductor Talents 
    IC Layout Contest   Courses 
Technology evolves rapidly. To continue along  
the Moore s Law trend, TSMC has been driving  
semiconductor nodes towards 7nm process  
technology and further. In light of increasingly  
intricate advanced process technologies, the  
quality of chip layout affects overall performance  
by as much as 20%. TSMC sets out to provide our  
customers with competitive advantages of power,  
performance, and area (PPA) on TSMC s advanced  
processes to win market opportunities. To fulfill  
our commitment, we are leading the industry in  
the cultivation of top IC layout talents well-versed  
in design and technology co-optimization (DTCO). 
In 2019, TSMC launched the first national IC  
Layout Contest to further enhance the learning  
effects of  TSMC-NTUT IC Layout and Design,  a  
program that has been running for four years to  
prepare students for the future with industry links  
and experiences. The contest is an unprecedented  
measure to overthrow the dated perception  
in academia that IC layout is merely the  
implementation of design layouts. Throughout the  
four-month contest, students learned about the  
latest process technologies in the semiconductor  
industry and key techniques in circuit layout. It is  
TSMC s endeavor in cultivating the next generation  
IC layout talents for the semiconductor industry in  
Taiwan and worldwide. 
For more details, please refer to TSMC CSR website:  TSMC Leads the Industry by Hosting the First  TSMC  IC Layout Contest  in the Cloud 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
IC Layout Courses 
Note 1: The contest was originally designed with 300 contestants. Due to an overwhelming in ux of entries, the limit was adjusted to 500, and lots were drawn to con rm o cial contestants out of 1,000 applicants Note 2: The  rst place, second place, third place, and honorable mention teams won NT 200,000, NT 100,000, NT 80,000 and NT 20,000 prizes and plaques, respectively. Additional plaques and a NT 10,000 cash prize were given as  completion awards to all the teams who persisted in completing the competition. 
TSMC IC Layout Contest 
TSMC-NTUT IC Layout  and Design Courses 18 lessons in one  semester 
     15 technical seminars held  across Taiwan to help students  learn more deeply about the  opportunities and challenges of IC  layout in advanced technologies 
     2,000 students participated in the  seminars 
     A total of 1,000 students and  150 advising professors from 35  universities in Taiwan signed up  for the contest 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Course Title Cooperative Partner   Method Frequency Number of  Bene ciaries 
Preliminary Cross-Campus  Campaign 
    National Taipei University of Technology  (NTUT): Theories and teachings 
   Lecturers designated by TSMC Layout  Design Engineering Division to  demonstrate circuit layout design with  case studies 
   Provide key IC manufacturing process,  layout techniques and IP resources 
   Onsite instruction and Q A 
   O er summer internship opportunities 
 12 weeks of free access to cloud-based Virtual Design  Environment (VDE) for hands-on practices 
 7 hours of advanced IC layout skill and electronic design  automation (EDA) software online course co-developed with  Microsoft Azure and Cadence 
 3 workshops where contestants learn directly from TSMC  layout engineering experts 
 8 hours of advanced training for  nalists conducted by  TSMC layout engineering experts, o ering tips and explaining  test questions in the preliminary round 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Contestant Training Outcome 
Once a year A total of 120 students  since 2016 
 Preliminary Contest   A total of 250 teams, 500 students Note 1  participated in  the contest 
 Finals  17 teams, 34 students made it to the  nals 
 Prizes  Awarded with cash prize Note 2 and priority  status for selection to TSMC summer  internship opportunities  
I started circuit design and chip layout research  in my undergraduate years. But I didn t realize  the need to combine process technology and  chip design expertise to save area and achieve  better performance for both digital and analog  layout until I participated in the  TSMC IC  Layout Contest  workshop. Thank you TSMC  for providing such an opportunity to enrich  our knowledge of IC Layout. 
Min-Yang Chiu 
Contestant  graduate student, Department of Electrical  Engineering, National Tsing Hua University 
Number of  Bene ciaries 
     Over 2,000 students  have participated since  September 2019 
    TSMC University Shuttle Program 
In 2019, TSMC University Shuttle Program helped  
professors and students of 25 universities around the  
world in turning IC design into actual chips and verifying  
the application performance of their designs in end- 
systems. Fields of research of the current year extend  
across 5G communications, Biotechnology, Arti cial  
Intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), and power-saving  
technologies. In an e ort to keep up with the technology  
trends, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and  
National University of Singapore (NUS) have integrated  
research e orts in the application of IoT and energy  
conservation measures to data and hardware security.  
Note: Cooperative partners are sequenced in alphabetical order 
2019 Featured Projects and Partners 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Arti cial Intelligence and  Hardware Security 
Dr. Anantha P. Chandrakasan Dean of the School of Engineering, MIT 
TeraHertz and Millimeter Wave  Technology Application 
Dr. M.C. Frank Chang Distinguished Professor of Electrical  Engineering, UCLA 
Arti cial Intelligence and Memory- based Security Application 
Dr. Meng-Fan (Marvin) Chang Distinguished Professor of Electrical  Engineering, National Tsing Hua  University 
Through the substantiation of theories and research  
projects in class, TSMC and universities are actively joining  
hands to cultivate new innovative semiconductor talents.  
TSMC University Shuttle Program demonstrated fruitful  
research results in 2019. A total of 27 papers were  
published in the IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits  
(JSSC) and presented at the International Solid-State  
Circuits Conference (ISSCC), a prestigious conference  
known as the  Olympics of IC design.  The number of  
papers published has doubled from the previous year.  
In addition, the research projects with University of  
California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and MIT have obtained  
the U.S. patents. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Mixed Signal Circuit and RF  Technology Application 
Dr. Shen-Iuan Liu Distinguished Professor of Electrical  Engineering, National Taiwan University 
Wireless Technology and Arti cial  Intelligence Application 
Dr. Shyh-Jye Jou Professor of Electronic Engineering,  Institute of Electronics, National Chiao  Tung University 
Wireless Technology (5G  and  6G) and Biomedical Sensors for  Cancer Tumor Detection 
Dr. Ali M. Niknejad Professor of Electrical Engineering  and Computer Sciences, UC Berkeley    Faculty Director of the Berkeley Wireless  Research Center (BWRC) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
2019 TSMC University Shuttle Program  Manufacturing Process Technology and  Field of Research 
Research Applications in Recent  Years 
TSMC University Shuttle Program 
Manufacturing Technologies for  Student Design 
 Non-volatile memory (NVM) 
 Analog signal circuits 
 Digital signal circuits 
 Mixed signal circuits 
 RF circuit design 
 Ultra-low power (ULP) 
 5G and communications technology 
 Biotechnology 
 Arti cial Intelligence 
 IoT and energy-e cient technology 
 NVM applications 
 Security Applications 
I appreciate TSMC s e ort in assisting  National Chiao Tung University in  substantializing our innovation R D  projects in high-speed  ber-optic  communication, 5G communication  system and AI IC through the University  Shuttle Program. We are also able to  verify the performance of our research  results and publish them in prestigious  international journals and conferences  where our research e orts were received  recognition. 
Dr. Shyh-Jye Jou 
Professor of Electronic Engineering, Institute of  Electronics, National Chiao Tung University 
TSMC s University Shuttle Program has  allowed Taiwanese and foreign students  alike to further delve into semiconductor  studies and examine or re ne their designs.  It is a great program that enhances R D  competencies and drives technology  development in the semiconductor  industry. 
Dr. M.C. Frank Chang 
Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering, UCLA 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Quality Culture Enhancement 
Promote continuous improvement programs to enhance the internal quality culture Encourage local suppliers to participate in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award to strengthen a culture of quality and competitiveness within TSMC s local supply chain 
Quality Capability Improvement 
Leverage machine learning to construct a visual defect inspection and classi cation system for outgoing 12-inch wafers to increase employee productivity Develop hazardous substance analysis capabilities in chemical laboratories to ensure occupational health and safety (OHS) Strengthen management for hazardous substances to improve green manufacturing 
Encourage 100% of major local raw materials suppliers and 75% of back- end packaging materials suppliers to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award  60% to advance to the  nals  Note 1  NEW 
Generate up to NT 20 billion in value from improvement projects and  involve outstanding projects in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award Completed 49,356 improvement projects  Note 2 
Increase the productivity of each visual inspection worker that are responsible  for outgoing 12-inch wafers to 7,000 pieces  Increase the productivity of each visual inspection worker that  are responsible for outgoing packages by 5% per month and 50%  accumulatively (base year: 2019) NEW 
Develop the ability to analyze 100% of CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic  and Reprotoxic) substances and help major suppliers develop the same  capabilities  NEW 
Note 1: Major suppliers are those that meet at least one of the following conditions: 1. accounted for  85% of purchasing expenses  2. single-source supplier  3. ongoing orders in each quarter Note 2:  Continuous Improvement Team (CIT) Activities  and  Suggestion Program  have been merged  into  Improvement Projects  in 2019 
Product Quality 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Target: 43,000 Generated a bene t of NT 15 billion in value  Target: NT 10 billion 
100% of major local suppliers participated in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award  Target: 100% 
Increased the productivity of each 12-inch wafer outgoing visual inspector to  5,258 pieces per month  Target: 5,250 pieces 
Developed the ability to analyze 83% of CMR substances  Target: 77 % Develop the full ability to analyze 100% of CMR substances 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Generate NT 11 billion in value from improvement projects and  involve at least  ve outstanding projects in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement award 
100% of major local suppliers of raw materials suppliers and 30% of  back-end packaging materials suppliers to participate in the Taiwan  Continuous Improvement Award 
Increase the productivity of each visual inspection worker that are  responsible for outgoing 12-inch wafers to 5,415 pieces per month  and the monthly productivity of each visual inspection worker that  are responsible for back-end packaging by 5% NEW 
(Continue on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Quality Capability Improvement 
Leverage machine learning to construct a visual defect inspection and classi cation system for outgoing 12-inch wafers to increase employee productivity Develop hazardous substance analysis capabilities in chemical laboratories to ensure occupational health and safety (OHS) Strengthen management for hazardous substances to improve green manufacturing 
Quality Application Realization 
Based on the Company s technology roadmap, complete reliability quali cation for advanced process technologies, specialty process technologies and wafer-level package process in the design and development stage 
Note: Formula and process parameter adjustments and more testing were necessary because of issues  with product yield during the testing of substitute chemicals in 2019, which is why the substitution  project was behind schedule 
N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP) 100% replacement (Base year: 2016) 
No process involves Per uoroalkyl Substances (PFASs) that have more than  4 carbons 
Based on the Company's technology roadmap, complete reliability  quali cation for advanced process technologies, specialty technologies and  wafer-level package process in the design and development stage 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
100% compliance with hazardous substance regulations and customer  requirements Target: 100% 86% completion of substituting all PFOA-related (Per uorooctanoic  Acid, PFOA) substances  Note 
Complete reliability quali cation for 5nm process technology, 22nm  embedded MRAM and the fourth generation integrated Fan-Out  packaging (InFO) Target: Complete reliability quali cation for 5nm process technology and specialty  
Target: 100% 38% reduction in the use of NMP  Note  Target: 70% 
technologies 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Reduce the use of NMP by 95% Do not use PFASs with more than 4 carbons for the development of  advanced processes of 3nm and below  
Complete reliability quali cation for advanced process  technologies, specialty process technologies, and wafer-level  package process in accordance with the R D targets 
TSMC strives to provide global customers with  
outstanding semiconductor foundry services. To  
ensure customer satisfaction, TSMC pays attention to  
the quality of each operational aspect and reinforces  
a corporate culture of consistent hard work. In face of  
problems and challenges, the Company stays proactive  
and takes e ective measures to ensure that customers  
receive products and services of the best quality.  
TSMC Quality Management System 
Note 1: Add quality inspections for incoming materials at critical control points to ensure quality Note 2: Improve the real-time monitor system of photo process and establish the guideline for monitoring parameters  to improve abnormal events handling  ow in case of the production and delivery of defected products Note 3: Establish the Early Failure Rate System for real-time information in order to reduce the defect yield and risk in  reliability as well as increase product yield 
 IP Library Development  Quality Assurance 
 Design Kits Deliverables  Management 
Design Service Wafer Manufacturing Tech Development Backend Service Mask Making Customer Satisfaction 
Continuous  Improvement   8Ds Quality Tools Application 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Change Control Platform  Note 5 Failure Analysis Supplier  Subcontractor Quality Management   Note 6 
 SPICE Model Management 
 Process Technology  Development Management 
 Build In Reliability Test 
 Process Release Standard 
Potential Failure Mode    E ect Analysis  Note 4  Control  Plan Statistical  Process Control Measurement  System Analysis 
 Remote Mask DB Check 
 Mask Defect Inspection 
TSMC is leading the way for the continued advancement  
of semiconductor manufacturing processes and also  
actively trying to improve chip product quality and  
reliability. To ful ll its commitment to customer s  
product quality and increase end user s life quality,  
TSMC rigorously strives to help customers realize their  
product energy e ciency and high performance and  
achieve the goal of sustainable development. TSMC  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Incoming Quality Control  Note 1 
 Advanced Process Control 
 EQ Real Time Monitor  Note 2 
 Process Reliability Monitor  Note 3 
 Wafer Acceptance Test 
 Outgoing Quality Gating 
Note 4: In compliance with the international standard for automotive industry, the latest version of AIAG-VDA FMEA was introduced in 2019 and is expected to be completed in 2020 Note 5: Strengthen the connection of review between the change in mask making information and wafer manufacturing to reduce the risk of errors in the change Note 6: Suppliers are required to apply statistical process control and maintain the reliability of the process and the quality of upstream raw materials to enhance the analysis of such  materials. The supply chain is required to receive ISO 9001 certification and to assess the management of process change in order to enhance the quality management of  raw materials 
 Process Quality Control 
 Package Reliability  Monitor 
 Outgoing Quality Gating  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
has built an IATF 16949 quality management system  
in line with automotive industry quality standards.  
The Company has leveraged information technology  
to build a rigorous management and quality control  
systems for the processes of design service, technology  
development, mask making, wafer manufacturing, and  
backend service.  
 Customer Claim  Management 
 Annual Customer  Satisfaction Survey 
Besides seeking constant improvement, TSMC also  
extends the quality requirements to Tier 1 and Tier 2  
suppliers. Using its own experience, the Company also  
attempts to help partners improve their quality culture,  
capabilities and applications in order to enhance the  
quality management of TSMC, and the semiconductor  
supply chain. 
Quality Application  Realization 
Quality Capability  Improvement 
Quality Culture  Enhancement 
Quality  Improvement 
STOP   FIX 
Quality is the collective responsibility of all TSMC  
employees. In order to strengthen company s quality  
culture, improve employees  problem-solving abilities,  
and develop quality control systems, TSMC and its  
Quality and Reliability Organization held the Total  
Quality Excellence   Innovation Conference and series  
of seminars training sessions about the design of  
experiments, statistical process control, metrology,  
and deep machine learning in 2019. TSMC consistently  
encouraged its employees to innovate and drive  
cross-team observation and learning, and promoted  
the quality culture with quality awareness posters,  
demonstration of outstanding projects, cash bonuses,  
and public recognition. In 2019, employees proposed  
2019 Quality Improvement Projects 
Quality Culture Enhancement 
Group Projects Bene t 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Reduced charging remains on the wafer surface by improving  etching de-scum capabilities 
Signi cantly improved cleanliness of the sputter chamber by  redesigning a rougher surface texture for the chamber 
Fixed etching stop layer Cu pits and hillock defect problem to  reduce 5G mobile chip leakage 
STOP: Avoid yield loss of new products caused by die cracks  when entering volume production 
FIX: Completely prevent die cracks caused by stress on  ejector pins 
49,300 improvement projects and generated a bene t of  
NT 15 billion in value. To promote employees  initiatives  
as well as to prevent quality abnormalities and outdated  
operational regulations, the concept of   
 STOP   FIX  was proposed in 2019 and has created a  
potential bene t of NT 2.8 billion in value with over 5,500  
projects, enhancing the company culture of good quality. 
In 2020, TSMC continues to help employees develop  
quality management capabilities through the promotion  
and implementation of new strategies. The Company  
also continues to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  
Improvement Competition to promote outstanding  
projects in the local semiconductor supply chain as  
well as other industries in order to increase industrial  
competitiveness in Taiwan. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Reduced AlPad related defects by 88% 88% 
 Improved 5G product yield by 40% and announced  ve U.S. patents 40% 
 Found problems before products were scrapped and prevented the loss  of NT 60 million worth of wafers  
 Increased competitiveness in advanced manufacturing process and achieve  customers' AI high-performance chip applications 
 Increased average product yield in advanced manufacturing processes by 15% 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note:  Continuous Improvement Team (CIT) Activities  and  Suggestion  Program  in the 2018 report have been merged as  Improvement  Projects  in the 2019 report Categories of Improvement Projects in 2019 
Improvement Projects 
39.8 39.8 39.6 43.2 43.2 
Actual number Target number 
Unit: thousand cases 
Employee Training   4% 
Environmental Safety  and Health 3% 
Value of Improvement  Projects 
100 100 100 100 100 
Actual bene t created Target bene t 
Manufacturing Process 1% 
Service 1% 
Productivity 10% 
Quality 22% Outstanding  Proposals from  Direct Labor 22% 
STOP   FIX 24% 
Unit: NT   hundred million 
Case Study 
ALARM Abnormalities  in equipment  vacuum  
Prevent Yield Loss in New Products with STOP   FIX 
TSMC has been working hard to raise quality awareness on STOP   FIX since 2019. Through  
promotional posters, educational training and the demonstration of outstanding projects, the  
Company continues to improve the corporate culture of  proactively detecting and correcting  
abnormalities  and to encourage employees to  nd potential quality risks at work and to further  
achieve the ultimate goal of preventing abnormalities.  
In 2019, the Advanced Packaging Operations Division discovered quality abnormalities in the die of a  
new product. Investigations show that the problem was caused by the array of ejector pins. Therefore,  
the Company proposed  The Project of Improving the Array of Ejector Pins to Improve Die Yield,   
to formulate the best model of stress and speci cation based on mechanics, and sends feedback  
to the R D team to start the volume production of high-quality products. The project (1) discovers  
new abnormalities and develops systems of testing and prevention, and (2) improves treatment  
procedures and increases e ectiveness and timeliness. The project also won the  rst place among all  
outstanding STOP   FIX projects in the Total Quality Excellence   Innovation Conference. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Inspections of  equipment and fab  system  
Before Improvement 
After Improvement 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
New con guration of ejector pins is included in the development of new products to enhance product quality  
Examine the die  
 (cracks found) 
Stop the production and  trace the products 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In the die adhesive manufacturing process of new products in the Advanced Packaging Operations Division, two  
consecutive die seemed abnormal in a vacuum. In addition to stopping the equipment for inspection, proactively  
examine the products and detect  ne cracks that were considered the main cause of vacuum abnormalities.  
Immediately conducted the comprehensive testing and completely ceased production for the model. 
Through cause analysis and testing, the Advanced Packaging Operations Division con rmed that the array of  
equipment ejector pins is in the same direction as the lattice in silicon wafers so that the residual stress caused  
cracks in products. The best con guration of ejector pins was found through stress simulation. Continuous  
testing ensured that no more cracks were in the products, and the results were sent back to R D team for the  
better management from original source. Around NT  60 million wafers were protected from being scrapped in  
the stage of volume production.  
Detection and Correction of Abnormalities (STOP) 
Analysis of Causes   Prevention (FIX) 
(wrong position of  
Find the cause 
ejector pins) 
(New con guration of ejector  
pins sent to R D team) 
Prevention  
Back to  equipment  production 
around NT 60 million  from being scrapped  in the stage of volume  production 
Crack rate: Around   
4,000 ppm   0ppm 
Prevent wafers worth  
In 2019, TSMC participated in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award and achieved six Gold Awards, one Silver  
Award, and two Best Improvement and Innovation Awards for outstanding performance. TSMC has received more   
Gold Awards than any other companies in Taiwan for the ten consecutive years and more Best Improvement and  
Innovation Awards for four consecutive years. TSMC, having won one Best Improvement and Innovation Awards each  
year, later showed great improvement by winning two awards for two consecutive years. 
TSMC Projects in the 2019 Taiwan Continuous Improvement Competition 
Advancement of CMP  Production capacity in  special technologies Total bene t NT 512 million Golden Award Best Improvement and Innovation Award 
Improvement in etching  defect Total bene t NT 162 million  Golden Award Best Improvement and Innovation Award 
Studying equipment's  productivity to make a  breakthrough in capacity 
Golden Award 
Development of new  infrastructure of smart  monitoring to increase the  productivity of inspectors 
Golden Award 
Advancement of Product  Delivery E ciency  
Golden Award 
Improved 3D IC Advanced  Packaging Technologies 
Golden Award 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Productivity  increased  Monitoring speed  increased  
Fully  automated  100% Aannual use of  chemical solutions reduced 
Total capacity  increased  75% 
Number of scraps  decreased 55% 78% 
Defects  decreased  
Capacity of 12- inch equipment  increased  
The time spent  on sending the  product into the  machine has been  reduced by 40% 
Monitored amount  reduced 
Zero false reports  of scrapping due  to human error 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Bubble defect  improved  34.3% 
The machine idle  time for advanced  process has been  reduced by 3.2%  
Productivity  of employees  increased 
Total number of  control wafers and  related costs reduced  
Total bene t NT 12 billion  
Total bene t  NT 216 million  
Total bene t  NT 326 million  
Total bene t  NT 183 million  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Achievements in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Competition 
Gold Award Silver Award Bronze Award Best Improvement and Innovation Award 
Outstanding Achievements in 2019 TSMC Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award 
Unit: cases 
As the world s largest dedicated semiconductor foundry,  
TSMC always tries hard to in uence and encourage  
local suppliers to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  
Improvement ward in order to improve quality  
management through practical achievements and  
increase the competitiveness of Taiwan local industry  
and supply chain.  
In 2019, TSMC encouraged all of its major local suppliers  
to participate in the competition, winning three Gold  
Awards, six Silver Awards, four Bronze Awards, and one  
TSMC Supplier Participation in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Competition 
Participation Rate Target Participation Rate 
Gold Award Silver Award Bronze Award Best Improvement and Innovation Award 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Best Improvement and Innovation Award in a feat that  
outshined performances and number of participants in  
2018. In order to continuously increase the quality of its  
supply chain, TSMC not only invited senior management  
of the suppliers to attend to Taiwan Continuous  
Improvement Award but also required those who didn t  
advance to the  nal to submit improvement reports. The  
Company published the winners  information on the  
o cial TSMC website for public recognition, encouraging  
more local suppliers to make further improvements. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: cases 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In order to improve quality and e ciency, in 2014,  
TSMC started to utilize machine learning technology  
and deep learning method, and successfully applied  
advanced spectrum analysis to automated classi cation  
of wafer defects so that di erences among processes  
and equipment were detected, immediately triggering  
improvement. A defect inspection and classi cation  
Outgoing Visual Inspector Productivity for  12-inch Wafers 
4,500 4,325 4,160 
Actual Goal 
Quality Capability Improvement 
4,860 5,250 
Unit: wafer quantity Detectable CMR Substances 
system for 12-inch wafers was established to re ne  
the consistency of outgoing inspection. In 2019, the  
productivity of each 12-inch wafer outgoing visual  
inspector has increased to 5,258 pieces per month.  
The Company s Quality and Reliability Organization,  
in collaboration with its Corporate ESH Division, has  
classi ed the current suspect materials and established  
a sampling plan for testing. As for the control and  
management of new materials, TSMC not only requires  
Actual Goal 
the suppliers to declare whether the provided materials  
comply with the regulations but also carry out sampling  
tests to ensure that supplier declarations are accurate.  
In 2019, TSMC further strengthened the ability of its  
Better Management of Incoming Raw Materials 
Before Improvement 
After Improvement 
Raw material  speci cation  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Raw material speci cation being  strictly controlled  
Incoming materials 
Incoming materials Passed  
    Set up 100% inspection ability to  quality items 
    Increase inspection sampling rate 
chemical laboratories to analyze suspicious substance,  
having analyzed 83% of the substances for CMR e ects.  
The Company also introduced testing strategies to the  
major suppliers, which can quickly detect 178 hazardous  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Important quality items inspection 
Failed  Failed  
Require suppliers to make  improvements 
Certi cation before use  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
substances in semiconductor materials, improving their  
abilities to manage hazardous substances. 
Use in production 
TSMC s Commitment to Hazardous  Substance Management 
100% compliance with law and  regulations and customer standards on  hazardous-substance-free products 
None additional Group 1 carcinogens  as defined by the International Agency  for Research on Cancer (IARC) 
Initiate early projects of the manufacturing  process change and the substitution  of chemicals ahead of regulatory  requirements and make plans for annual  replacements 
Restrict the use of long-chain PFASs with  8 carbons and above. New chemicals  shall not contain short-chain PFASs with 5  to 7 carbons 
In 2020, TSMC will continue to promote innovations,  
including smart copying the productivity and experience  
of 12-inch wafer outgoing visual inspectors, and setting  
goals of increasing the productivity of outgoing visual  
inspectors for back-end packaging by 5% each year. 
In 2019, a batch of photo-resistor provided by a  
chemical supplier contained di erent materials that  
consequently caused heteropolymers in the liquid  
photo-resistor and had a negative e ect in the 12nm  
and 16nm wafers produced by TSMC Fab 14B. In  
order to guarantee wafer quality, TSMC immediately  
scrapped the defective wafers, informed all impacted  
customers, proposed alternative plans through  
individual communication, and strengthened online  
wafer testing to enforce stronger controls on incoming  
materials. In addition, TSMC increased capabilities  
of testing incoming materials provided by suppliers  
and enforced a certi cation procedure before using  
the materials in production in order to ensure that  
the quality is in accordance with requirements of the  
advanced process technology. 
In 2019, TSMC, in collaboration with SEMI, invited  
SEMICON, which had only been held in the U.S. and  
Europe, to hold the forum in Taiwan for the  rst time in  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
order to increase the competitiveness of Taiwan local  
supply chain in the global semiconductor industry. 55  
suppliers and 147 industry representatives participated  
in the event. TSMC also shared its innovations and  
management regarding the analysis of CMR substances  
as the Company has been dedicated to helping the  
global semiconductor industry produce higher- 
quality green products and realizing the goal of global  
sustainable management. 
Regarding the chemical management in manufacturing  
process, TSMC considers the comprehensive  
management of hazardous substances an important  
step in improving quality capability. The replacement  
plan of PFOA-related substances continued in 2019.  
Photo-resistor, the chemical that contains PFOA, is  
a key material in the manufacturing process. TSMC  
has tested a new, PFOA-free photo-resistor multiple  
times but problems with product yield means that  
formula and processing parameters must be adjusted  
and therefore delaying the substitution project. By  
May 2020, the completion rate has reached 86%. It  
is expected to reach 100% by the end of 2020. As for  
short-chain PFASs with 4 carbons, which has received  
worldwide attention, TSMC started an investigating  
evaluating substitution project regarding existing  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
chemicals in 2019 and also conducted evaluations of  
excluding such substances in the R D phase. 
In addition, TSMC has initiated a replacement project  
ahead of regulatory requirements regarding NMP,  
a commonly used chemical recognized as toxic for  
birth and reproduction. In 2019, the NMP substitution  
The Materials Committee of SEMI Recognized Young Scholars at the Event to Inspire Local Professionals 
project also faced issues with product yield because  
of substituting chemicals. TSMC will continue to make  
formula adjustments and more testing to reach the  
goal of reducing the use of NMP by 95% in 2020. 
For more details, please refer to TSMC CSR website: TSMC  Collaborates with SEMI to Hold the Strategic Materials Conference  in Taiwan for the First Time 
Restriction and Management of PFASs 
PFOS-related  substances 
PFOA-related  substances 
PFASs that contain  5 to 7 carbons 
PFBS-related  substances 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 UN Annex B on persistent  organic pollutants  (semiconductor manufacturing  process exempted) 
 EU REACH Annex 17: Usage  restricted since 2020 7 4  (semiconductor manufacturing  process exempted) 
 UN Annex A on persistent  organic pollutants  (semiconductor manufacturing  process exempted) 
 Restricted substances listed in  the chemical restriction of EU  research proposals 
 EU listed as a substance of  very high concern (SVHC) in  2020 1 16 
Regulations Overview of TSMC management 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 The substitution of existing  chemicals completed by 2010 
 Listed as a TSMC restricted  substance 
 The substitution of existing  chemicals 86% completed 
 Listed as a TSMC restricted  substance 
 Listed as a TSMC restricted  substance (Avoid the use of  such substance. If necessary  for research and development,  approval of VP-level executives  is required) 
 Listed as a substance of very  high concern in TSMC  Evaluate  not use in the advanced process  of 3nm and below 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC s Quality and Reliability Organization is in close  
collaboration with its R D team, and continues to  
focus on the advanced logic manufacturing process,  
specialty process, advanced packing technologies  
development and quality quali cation to ensure that  
component features, product yield and reliability meet  
the requirements. 
As for the advanced logic manufacturing process, in  
2019, TSMC completed the quali cation for 5nm FinFET  
transistors to ensure that its 5nm process technology is  
highly competitive for mobile communication and high- 
performance computing applications. The 5nm process  
is expected to enter volume production in 2020. In the  
aspect of specialty process technologies, quali cation for  
embedded Magnetic Random Access Memory (MRAM)  
on TSMC 22nm ultra-low leakage (22ULL) process  
platform has been completed. As for CMOS image sensor  
technology, TSMC has completed the quali cation for  
45nm near infrared CMOS (Complementary Metal Oxide  
Semiconductor) image sensor and ASIC (application- 
speci c integrated circuits) Wafer-on-Wafer application. 
In order to continue reducing product defects, improve  
process control, detect abnormality early on, and prevent  
quality incidents from a ecting customers, TSMC s  
Quality and Reliability Organization and Fab Operation  
are collaborating in a cross-team e ort to apply  
advanced statistical techniques and quality tools towards  
the creation of an immediate defense system in wafer  
factories. In 2019, TSMC continues to enhance the design  
Quality Application Realization 
and application of automotive products and update the  
automotive quality system to version 2.0. The Company  
also provided excusive resources to its customers in the  
automotive industry with DPPM demands so they can  
conduct analysis on returned merchandise and real- 
time Physical Failure Analysis (PFA) to drive process  
improvement. In 2019, TSMC established the quality  
control of automotive products on its 7nm and 12nm  
process technologies so that the Company is ready for  
the automotive electronics market in 2020. 
TSMC did not have any massive product recall in 2019,  
showing that TSMC products have been able to reach  
or exceed customers  demand for quality and reliability.  
With manufacturing excellence and high-quality service,  
TSMC will support customers to seize the business  
opportunities in the four growing markets that are mobile  
communication, high performance computing, IoT  
(Internet of Things) and automobile electronics, increase  
their competitiveness, provide global consumers high- 
quality electric products, and bring everyone a better life. 
For more details of Product Quality, please refer to TSMC s 2019  Annual Report 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Precise Response 
Provide excellent customer service through close collaboration with customers and customer meetings surveys on a regular basis to understand and respond to their needs 
Virtual Fab 
Provide comprehensive information in a timely manner to ensure the success of customer s products  strengthen processes and systems to hold the highest stands to protect customer product information  
Maintain customer satisfaction rating of over 90%  Customer satisfaction rating of 93% Target:  90% Maintain customer satisfaction rating of over 90% 
In line with TSMC s technology roadmap, provide customers with over 1,200 types of available  wafer manufacturing and process technology  over 170 types of advanced packaging  technology  
Pass customer product information audit with no major  aws Passed customer product information audit with no  major  aws Target: No major  aws 
Every million 12-inch wafers shipped, the number of engineering quality and reliability issues  improved to 60% of the level in 2019  NEW   Every million 12-inch wafers shipped, improve the number of  engineering quality or reliability issues to 95% of the level in  2019 
Customer Service 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
In line with TSMC s technology roadmap, provided  customers with over 765 types of available wafer  manufacturing and process technology  Target:   750 types of technology 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Provide customers with over 800 types of available wafer  manufacturing and processing technology  over 60 types of  advanced packaging technology  
Pass customer product information audit with no major   aws 
To become customers  trusted partner, TSMC vigorously  
strives to provide the best service to customers as to  
help customers achieve success. TSMC has established  
a devoted customer service team, which is a dedicated  
coordination window to provide the timely assistance  
and creates the best customer experience, from design  
support, mask making, and wafer manufacturing,  
to backend services. TSMC also commits to protect  
customer s con dential information with highest  
standard. TSMC wins customer s continuous trust, and  
was chosen as their foundry service provider, thereby  
ensuring TSMC s continue growth in the future. 
The Customer Service Strategy Pyramid 
Virtual Fab  for Integrated  Services  
Complete   Timely Information via  TSMC-Online TM 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Customer Proprietary  Information Protection 
Customer Trust 
TSMC treats customer feedback and expectations as an  
important basis for improving and developing customer  
relationship. TSMC learns about customer needs through  
multiple channels, and customers can then utilize these  
channels to provide feedback on the performance of  
business behavior, relationship, technology, quality,  
yield, design support, manufacturing, customer service,  
and further expectations for the future. TSMC reviews  
and analyzes customer feedback regularly, develop  
improvement plans upon them, and view it as a complete  
customer needs handling process. According to the annual  
Precise Responses 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Close Collaboration with Customer 
Precise  Response to  Customer  Needs 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
customer satisfaction survey in 2019, TSMC received a high  
score of 93%, keep maintaining high rating above 90% in  
6 consecutive years. In 2019, in response to customers   
expectation in continuous quality improvement for  
product segments required higher quality, TSMC created a  
new theme of improvement:  STOP   FIX.  Combining with  
a series of quality training activities, TSMC strengthens  
employees  capability to provide quality services and  
encourages employees to adhere to the quality and be  
the front-line guardian of quality. In an ever-changing  
market, the close collaboration with customers helps  
TSMC continuously satisfy its customers  needs with  
advanced technology, manufacturing excellence, and  
high-quality service. 
Note: Index includes Taiwan Facilities and Subsidiaries 
Annual Customer Satisfaction Ratings 
Various Communication Channels for Customers 
Annual Customer Satisfaction  Survey Meeting 
Irregular meeting 
Quarterly Review Meeting (33 customers, 136 quarterly reviews) 
behavior, impression and  execution 
Independent third-party consulting   rms through interviews or online  questionnaires 
Technology, quality, yield rate,  design, manufacturing, and customer service 
Both TSMC customer service  teams and customers 
Customer needs 
Both TSMC customer service  teams and customers 
a suite of web-based applications that allow TSMC to  
play an active role in collaborations with its customers  
in design, engineering and logistics. Customers thus  
have a 24-7 access to critical information and are able  
to create customized reports to facilitate e ective wafer  
management. Design collaboration lies upon data  
availability and accessibility, and provides customers with  
accurate and the most updated information at each stage  
of design life cycle. Engineering collaboration provides  
engineering lots, wafer yields and wafer acceptance test  
analysis, as well as quality and reliability data. Logistics  
collaboration provides information about customer  
order placement, shipments and delivery. To serve  
The instant information update and thorough protection  
of customer s con dential information are crucial for  
TSMC to build customer trust. To facilitate customer  
interaction on a real-time basis, TSMC-Online TM o ers  
Customers  Con dential Information Protection 
During product R D and  customer's decision-making  stages, TSMC considers  customer demands in  devising information  security systems and secure  information exchange  mechanisms 
Virtual Fab Provides Integrated  Customer Service 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Incorporate smart  management systems  into production  processes for physical    information security with  annual inspections of all  corresponding control  points 
customers can access transparent and comprehensive  
wafer manufacturing information and services. Thereby,  
customers can manage their products on a real-time  
basis to achieve product success. In 2019, in line with  
technology roadmap, TSMC now provides customers  
with over 760 types of available wafer manufacturing  
and process technologies and over 60 types of advanced  
package technologies. Proprietary Information Protection  
is a promise from TSMC to guarantee the interests  
of its customers. As a customer s  virtual fab,  TSMC  
holds the highest standard to protect its customers by  
implementing a special safety monitoring mechanism  
throughout the whole production process with annual  
audit of all control points. 
as a customer s  virtual fab,  through TSMC-Online TM,  
In 2019, TSMC helped customers achieve ISO 15408  
certi cation for various types of high-security chip  
products. ISO 15408 certi cation, an international  
standard under the Common Criteria for Information  
Technology Security Evaluation, is a security evaluation  
For customer needs,  TSMC devises protection  plans   safety protocols  and also reviews related  documents for all  production processes 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
With safety inspections    certi cations, TSMC  can earn trust and secure  orders from customers 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Types of Wafer Manufacturing Technology   Advanced Packaging Technology 
Note 1: 2019 index includes Taiwan Facilities and Subsidiaries Note 2: The cut-o  date of  types of wafer manufacturing technology  and   types of Advanced Packaging Technology  is December31 
standard for information products and systems. It is  
given in two major forms: product certi cation and site  
certi cation. To avoid any redundancy certi cation  
process on the part of its customers and provide a  
better customer experience by expediting customer s  
product certi cation processes, TSMC continues  
to obtain site certi cations for its various foundry  
businesses according to demands. In 2019, TSMC  
successfully achieved ISO 15408 certi cation for its  
Fab 14B. Compliant to the highest standard for the  
production of security products and the protection of  
proprietary information, Fab 14B is fully quali ed to  
readily accept orders for high-security products. For  
customers with such demand, therefore, TSMC is able to  
provide a safe manufacturing environment and ensure  
Types of Wafer Manufacturing Technology 
Types of Advanced Packaging Technology 
510 575 638 701 765 
2015 2018 2017 2016 2019 
10 22 31 46 60 
TSMC strongly believes that constant innovation and high- 
quality products and services are the key factors to maintain  
a long-lasting customer satisfaction. As a trusted technology  
and capacity provider in the global logic IC industry, TSMC  
will continue to be service-oriented and maximum-total- 
bene ts silicon foundry as to become a long-term important  
partner that customers can trust and rely on for success. 
optimal safety management not only in the production  
process but also along the supply chain. Furthermore,  
TSMC ensures the safety and reliability of the end- 
products manufactured with its security and aims to  
pass all annual inspections on customer products and  
information protection, thereby deepening trust and  
partnership with its customers. 
Customer recognition of TSMC's excellence in customer service 
Case Study 
release manufacturing instructions to not-yet processed wafer or stacked- 
wafer products in TSMC-Online TM without time-zone constraint. Before  
this enhancement, if customer had manufacturing instruction to not- 
yet processed wafer or stacked-wafer product which is with complicate  
Enhance Self-Service Wafer Instructions - Real Time Customer Service 
In 2019, to improve the timeliness and convenience of customers  
wafer manufacturing instruction, TSMC integrated product information  
and wafer production system, improved customer lot handling notice  
process, and enhanced TSMC-Online TM function. Now, customer can  
Customer request Wafer  manufacturing 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Improved  process 
Original process 
Online query  wafer status Online book  new lot ID Online release  instruction Convenience 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Check wafer  status with TSMC Discuss needs  with TSMC TSMC releases  instruction 
directly after con rmation. Besides, TSMC integrated the information from  
Bill of Material and wafer production system. Combining with optimized  
system user interface, customers have a clear overview of wafer status and  
wafer instruction process in TSMC-Online TM. This new service enhancement  
manufacturing process, customer need to contact TSMC o -line. Then TSMC  
counterpart would help to release customer s instruction accordingly. Now,  
customer can per request to reserve wafer ID with manufacturing instruction  
in TSMC-Online TM. The instruction will be released to manufacturing system  
TSMC Online TM 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC con rms 
can reduce wait time from time zone di erences. After the new functions  
launched in March 2019, the usage rate increased by 22% and timeliness  
improved by 20%. 
20% Timeliness 
22% Usage Rate 
Proprietary Information Protection 
Proprietary Information Protection is a promise from  
TSMC to customers, shareholders and employees. TSMC  
responds to the increasing importance of proprietary  
information protection in regard to maintaining  
current and future competitive advantage, and devises  
 Proprietary Information Protection   PIP  policy to  
de ne the proprietary information protection and  
management guidelines. TSMC trade secrets and related  
undisclosed con dential information are protected  
under these guidelines in the best interest of company,  
shareholders, employees, customers, and vendors. 
TSMC has created its PIP Committee, an organization  
dedicated to the Proprietary Information Protection,  
chaired by senior vice president of information  
technology and materials management   risk  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
TSMC s Strategy for Proprietary Information Protection 
TSMC considers the Proprietary Information Protection (PIP) as part of its core business  
strategy. To ful ll its commitment to PIP, the Company has adopted four approaches:  
information classi cation and control, access authorization, training programs, and  
compliance auditing. These measures serve to protect the proprietary information of  
not only TSMC and its subsidiaries but also any third party entity that conducts business  
dealings with TSMC. Furthermore, TSMC continues to enforce IT security measures,  
actively identifying potential vulnerabilities and risks for data breach, assessing possible  
damages, and developing mitigation measures to ful ll its commitment to Proprietary  
Information Protection. 
management. Consisting of Vice Presidents from legal  
counsels, Human Resource, R D, and Operations, the  
committee holds regular meetings to review and develop  
important policies on information protection and  
information security. It creates and enforces Proprietary  
Information Protection policy and guidelines, develops  
e ective compliance mechanism, continues to enhance  
its capability to protect proprietary information, and  
ensures the applicability of those regulations through  
yearly reviews. Amendments were made in 2019 to  
guidelines on proprietary information management  
and to physical security area de nition. Seven major  
approaches were adopted to consolidate and protect  
Company s proprietary information. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Seven Major Approaches of PIP Implemented in 2019 
Information  Control 
Employee Access  Control 
IT Asset  Management 
Printed Material  Management 
IT System  Application  Management 
Facility  Management 
Equipment  Management 
IT Security Management Measures in 2019 
TSMC has developed speci c methods for the  
assessment of information security risks, created clear  
protocols for management, built automated information  
security management system, and obtained ISO 27001  
certi cation for information security, thereby becoming  
compliant with international standards for information  
security management. In response to all kinds of cyber- 
attacks and external threats to information security,  
TSMC continued in 2019 to enforce information security  
risk management measures, enhance detection, and  
strengthen defensive measures. For example, TSMC has  
created automated anti-virus system to prevent malware  
from in ltrating into its intranet  it has strengthened the  
control of intranet and  rewalls to prevent the spread  
of virus across facilities or equipment  it has installed  
endpoint anti-virus measures  it has developed and  
Structure of Information Security Management System PIP and Information Security Incident Reporting 
Recovery Recovery procedures are executed  to restore functions and conduct  tests. 
Response In the event of information security  incident, comprehensive response  plans are executed.  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Detection Internal and external threats to information security are regularly detected. 
Information Security  Management  System  
deployed information security monitoring applications  
to monitor internal computers and alert of any security  
problems  it has stepped up detection of computer  
vulnerabilities and ensured that software programs are  
up to-date  it has also enhanced detection of phishing  
emails and taught employees how to identify them.  
TSMC ensures the validity and legitimacy of information  
security protocols and procedures through regular  
reviews and evaluations, thereby minimizing information  
security risks and protecting the company from ever- 
evolving and ever-growing security threats. 
Training and Campaigns for PIP    Information Security  
TSMC o ers regular and diverse training programs and  
conducts continued promotion programs to impose PIP  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Identi cation Threats to information security  are identi ed and analyzed to  inform defensive measures. 
Control Factors a ecting information  security are pinned down to  inform action plans and enforce  control measures. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
awareness and obligations on all employees, making them  
recognize the importance of PIP and to equip them with the  
knowledge and capabilities needed to minimize the risk of  
information breach. For example, the Company has taught  
its employees how to identify phishing emails and provided  
clear guidelines to employees and contractors to avoid  
infractions of information security protocols. Furthermore,  
TSMC targets its e orts at employees by establishing internal  
PIP Working Committees in its organizations and functional  
units. In a total of 60 organizations, including TSMC s  
Taiwan facilities and overseas subsidiaries, PIP Guardians  
hold monthly meetings to keep track of situations on  
the ground, raise suggestions on information security for  
their organizations, and design PIP measures that meet  
the speci c needs of their organizations, keep pace with  
changing conditions, and adapt to local circumstances. In  
addition, employees can raise their PIP concerns and report  
    Report concerns  through PIP  Helpdesk   suggestion box 
Employees PIP Report  Coordinators PIP Sta  Measures and  Results  
    Identify the nature of  concerns and refer  them to dedicated  sta  
    Address the concerns based  on the impacts and the risks  involved 
    Launch investigations and give  penalties when infractions  being identi ed 
information security incidents through a Helpdesk hotline  
or an online suggestion box. The reports will be handled  
and addressed by dedicated sta . 
For suppliers, TSMC established Supplier s Chain Security  
Association in 2019, which holds Supply chain security  
interaction meeting with important suppliers that  
work closely with the company to discuss Proprietary  
Information Protection and information security policies  
and possible improvements. To protect the interest of both  
parties by avoiding information breach, TSMC launched  
a quarterly newsletter of TSMC Supply Chain Security  
Newsletter from the third quarter of 2019 to keep suppliers  
updated about any change in regulations and the newest  
announcements. 
    Provide updates  on the measures  taken and results  to employees who  raised the concern 
    Ways to check PIP regulations and seek consultancy if needed 
95 points average score for employees PIP engagement.  Conducted a PIP engagement survey, collected over  40,000 surveys with over 85% response rate 
14 PIP Micro- lm 
A PIP Micro-film Contest was held with 14 microfilms  created, in which Vice President level or above executives  reminded employees the importance of PIP to TSMC's  competitive edge 
A total of 24 PIP posters were created to promote  important regulations and announcements 24 PIP Posters 
48,000 Employees 
Over 48,000 employees completed the annual PIP online  refresher e-learning course 
Course content 
    Core concepts that underlie PIP policies 
    Major events and new regulations in 2019 
    Case studies on PIP regulatory violations 
1 Fab achieved ISO 15408 certi cation 
Fab 14B was successfully certi ed by the German Federal  Office for Information Security (BSI) for ISO IEC 15408-  EAL6 under Common Criteria (Site Certification), thus  becoming fully qualified to readily accept orders for  security chips and high-security products 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
3 Million Checks 
Number of PIP Inspections Conducted  
Each Month 
Approximately 3 million PIP checks conducted per  month, including 
    PIP contraband detection 
    Entry control on premises 
    Inspections on the handling of proprietary information 
    Inspections on the use of emails 
    Inspections of contractors' PIP practices 
2017 2019 2018 
2019 Proprietary Information  Protection Enforcement Report 
Unit: million 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
from information security incident 0 Case 
Zero cases of customer information breach  
Note 1: 2019 PIP performance indicators cover TSMC s Taiwan  facilities, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing) Note 2: To strengthen the protection of proprietary information,  TSMC enforced inspection and detection measures for  printed documents and physical security in 2019, resulting  in a higher infraction rate than the year before 
2017 2019 2018 
All new employees, a total of over 3,000 individuals,  have completed PIP training courses 100% 
All new vendors, a total of over 25,000 individuals, have  completed PIP training courses 100% 
Newly created or revised 12 PIP regulations  12 Regulations 
1.29% of employees were caught violating PIP regulations  and protocols Note 2 and were given penalties consistent to  the severity of damage caused by their violations. Penalties  include demerit, warning, and suspension of duty. Major  violation will result in termination of employment and  lawsuit (i.e. Trade Secret Law)  
    Strengthen PIP promotion campaigns and training  programs 
    Reinforce control on data access and data distribution 
    Reinforce control on document printing and data access 
    O er online consultancy service and training programs  on new regulations 
The main cause of violation: personal negligence or  practices not compliant to PIP protocols 
Corrective measures 
4 Customer Security Audits 
TSMC assisted four customers in obtaining international  security certi cations for their products, and  ensured their product information protection during  manufacturing  
 12 Million 
The output volume in 2019 exceeded 12M in 12-inch wafer equivalents  
Fab 2 Fab 12 Fab 14 Fab 15 TSMC (Nanjing) Fab 5 Fab 8 Fab 3 Fab 6 TSMC (China) WaferTech 
TSMC Delivers Unrivalled Manufacturing Flexibility 
TSMC Europe TSMC Japan 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC North America TSMC (Nanjing) TSMC (China) 
TSMC Korea 
Fab 2   3   5   8 
Technologies 499 481 465 
HQ   Fab 12 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
GIGAFAB  GIGAFAB  GIGAFAB  
Customers 10,761 10,436 9,920 
Responsible  Supply Chain 
A Responsible Purchaser 
As the world s largest dedicated IC foundry, TSMC is committed to remaining a responsible  purchaser by encouraging upstream and downstream suppliers to seek advancements in  technology, quality, delivery, environmental protection, human rights, health and safety.  We will strive vigorously to support the development of a sustainable supply chain. 
Tier 1 suppliers signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and Self-Assessment  Questionnaire on Sustainable Management, with 100% completion rate 
100% raw materials purchased were DRC con ict-free 
Reduced waste output by major local waste-producing suppliers by 28.5% 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Sustainability Risk Management  
All suppliers are required to comply with the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and to follow human rights and con ict-free mineral guidelines.   TSMC continues to assess sustainability risk and encourages critical suppliers to join the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). 
Continue to assess sustainability risk and encourage critical suppliers to  join the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
Improve supply chain emergency preparedness, which bene ts both the  suppliers and TSMC  Note 7 
    Continue to diversify production sites and assess new suppliers  develop 125 multi- source supply solutions  (Base year: 2018)  Note 7 
    Critical suppliers completion rate for receiving third-party audits (by RBA-certi ed  auditing institutions) every three years: 100%  Note 6 
Suppliers comply with TSMC Code of Ethics, taking actions according to the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct Note 1 
    Tier 1 suppliers' completion rate for signing the TSMC Supplier Code of  Conduct: 100%  Note 2  
    Completion rate of critical suppliers reporting on the status of sustainability  management in their critical upstream supply chains: 100%  Note 3, Note 4 
    TSMC continues to monitor supplier employees working at TSMC facilities 
    Supplier due diligence on con ict-free minerals: 100% of the minerals used  to comply with con ict-free requirements 
Supplier Sustainability Management  
Tier 1 suppliers' completion rate of the Sustainability Management Self- Assessment Questionnaire: 100%   Tier 1 suppliers completion rate for signing the TSMC Guidance on Supplier  Business Conduct and conducting internal training every two years: 100% 
Note 1: Since 2018, suppliers are required to re-sign and commit every year  in 2019, the requirement expanded to Tier 1 suppliers of TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing) 
Note 2: Tier 1 supplier refers to a supplier trading with TSMC directly with more than two orders per yearand selected mainly spending-based. In 2019, 1,226 suppliers met the criteria 
Note 3: Critical Suppliers: In 2019, 110 suppliers met the criteria - a supplier which either (1) accounts for 85% of the purchasing expenses, or (2) is a single source of purchase 
Note 4: Status of sustainability management: Critical Suppliers are required to ask critical upstream companies in their  supply chain to comply with the Code of Ethics and follow  
Note 5: TSMC Guidance on Supplier Business Conduct is the training material for the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct. If its content doesn t change signi cantly, the suppliers are  
TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct requirements 
required to re-sign and commit in every two years 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
All tier 1 suppliers signed the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct at the completion rate of 100% Target: 100% All tier 1 suppliers completed the Sustainability Management Self-Assessment  Questionnaire at the completion rate of 100% Target: 100% All tier 1 suppliers signed the TSMC Guidance on Supplier Business Conduct and conducted  internal training at the completion rate of 100% Note 5 
Target: 100% Critical suppliers are required to report on the status of sustainability management in their  critical upstream supply chains: the completion rate is 100% Target: NEW 
Quarterly review on the attendance of supplier employees working at TSMC factory sites Target: Continuously require critical suppliers to accept professional audits Sourcing con ict-free raw materials  Target: 100% 
A total of 46 critical Suppliers completed third-party supplier audits on sustainability  risk by RBA-certi ed institutions  Target: 45 critical suppliers 
Developed 56 multi-source supply solutions   Target: NEW 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 6: TSMC requires critical suppliers to complete third-party audits every three years. Since the  rst batch of suppliers (177 suppliers that met the criteria)  
Note 7: Using the TSMC Business Continuity Management Policy as guidelines, TSMC aims to reduce disruption risk to the  ow of raw materials and continues  
Note 8: Including the raw materials used by TSMC, such as chemicals and gases 
conducted third-party audits in 2018, TSMC expects that by 2021 100% of the suppliers will complete third-party audits    
to improve supply chain emergency response capabilities, bene ting both the suppliers and TSMC  
All tier 1 suppliers sign TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct  and Sustainability Management Self-Assessment  Questionnaire  completion rate: 100% 
Critical suppliers report on the status of sustainability  management in their critical upstream supply chains   completion rate: 100% TSMC continues to monitor the supplier employees  attendance who working at TSMC factory sites Supplier due diligence on con ict-free minerals: 100% of  minerals used comply with con ict-free requirements 
Continue to require critical suppliers to receive third-party  audits by RBA-certi ed auditing institutions. The target is  requiring 60 critical suppliers to complete third-party audits 
The target for improving supply chain emergency  preparedness: develop 64 multi-source supply  solutions 
(Continue on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Local Supply Chain Optimization 
Improve the core capability of local suppliers, safeguard the rights of local entry-level labor, increase local sourcing, and collaborate with suppliers on power, water, and waste reduction  
Increase local sourcing  Note 6 
Provide consultation on power reduction for suppliers and  reduce energy consumption by a cumulative total of 1,500 GWh  (Base year: 2018) 
Reduce waste production among major local suppliers by 35%  (Base year: 2014)  Note 9 Waste production among major local suppliers reduced by 28.5% Target: 28% Reduce waste production among major local suppliers by 29.1% 
    A cumulative total of 1,500 local suppliers participate in the  Environmental, Safety, and Health (ESH) training program  (Base year:  2016)  Note 1 
Provide consultation for the supplier to continue improving 
    A cumulative total of 300 suppliers observe annual emergency  response drills (Base year: 2016)  
    A cumulative total of 145 local raw materials suppliers receive  consultation on process enhancement and quality improvement  (Base year: 2016)  Note 2 
    64% for indirect raw materials 
    60% for spare parts  
    40% for backend equipment  Note 7 
Note 1: The number of suppliers here is an accumulated total  
Note 2: In the first stage, TSMC plans to provide consultation for 38 suppliers on process enhancement and quality improvement by 2020  starting in 2021 in the second stage, TSMC  
Note 3: In 2019, TSMC increased the frequency of ESH training programs for the suppliers from twice a year to every quarter. The training program consists of experience sharing, which  
Note 4: The scoring scale of ESH audit for local suppliers ranges from 1 to 100: 60 is the minimum passing score, 70 to 80 is intermediate, 80 to 90 is excellent, 90 and above is outstanding 
plans to provide consultation for ten suppliers every year   
is popular among the suppliers. Therefore, TSMC met the target of 2025 in advance. TSMC plans to provide consultation for 38 suppliers on process advancement and quality  
improvement by 2020  starting in 2021 in the second stage, TSMC plans to provide consultation for ten suppliers every year 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
A cumulative total of 411 suppliers participated in the Environmental,  Safety, and Health (ESH) training program  Note 3 
Target: NEW The average ESH audit score for local suppliers: 78  Note 4, Note 5 
Target: 80 Integrated Responsible Supply Chain Forum  into  TSMC s annual Supply  Chain Management Forum  Target: holding the Responsible Supply Chain Forum 22 suppliers attended the observation and learning program of the annual  emergency response drill (Cumulative total: 90) Target: 20 suppliers this year, 88 in total 16 suppliers received consultation on process enhancement and quality  improvement (Cumulative total: 33) Target: 7 suppliers this year, 33 in total 
59% for indirect raw materials Target: 57.5% 50% for spare parts  Target: 50% 34% for backend equipment Note 8 
Target: 36% 
Provided consultation on power reduction for 12 suppliers, and reduced energy  consumption by a cumulative total of 97 GWh, accounting for 1.3% of the total  energy consumption  Target: 0.5% (Base year: 2018) 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 5: TSMC increased audit items and raised the scoring standard in 2019  therefore the supplier annual audit score failed to meet the target   
Note 6: Increase local sourcing in TSMC s main region of operation - Taiwan  
Note 7: The percentage of local sourcing in backend equipment excluded machinery requested by customers 
Note 8: For backend equipment, due to the increased proportion of advanced packaging and elevated quality requirements, packaging equipment suppliers in Taiwan are currently  
Note 9: Referring to suppliers producing 80% of the local waste in raw materials. Calculation formula: A (A B)(%)  A: waste reduced by the factory in the underlying month (metric tons)    
unable to meet TSMC production requirements 
B: waste produced by the factory in the underlying month (metric tons).  
A cumulative total of 500 suppliers participate in the Environmental, Safety,  and Health (ESH) training program    
Hold the annual Responsible Supply Chain Forum   
A cumulative total of 110 suppliers observe annual emergency response drills      12 suppliers receive consultation on process enhancement and quality  improvement (Cumulative total: 45)  
60% for indirect raw materials 
50% for spare parts   
36% for backend equipment 
Provide consultation on power reduction for suppliers, and reduce energy  consumption by a cumulative total of 200 GWh (Base year: 2018) 
As a leader of the global semiconductor industry, TSMC  
continues to drive improvement of the supply chain,  
and is committed to an environmentally and socially  
responsible business model. In 2019, TSMC continued  
to deepen its two policies of  Sustainability Risk  
Management  and  Local Supply Chain Optimization   
anchoring supply chain development to the core  
value of sustainability. Working closely with suppliers,  
TSMC actively works to ensure the safety of the work  
environment, the dignity of labor, ethical business  
 Suppliers must comply with the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct while extending the  scope of management to their upstream suppliers  
 Determining the level of compliance according to the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct  via Sustainability Self-Assessment Questionnaire or Risk Assessment by the TSMC  experts 
 Requiring critical suppliers to receive third-party audits by RBA-certi ed auditing  institutions or on-site audits by the TSMC experts 
 Requiring suppliers to improve according to the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct as  well as the audit results  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Rules of Implementation  Management Measures  
conduct, and environmental protection. By implementing  
the 4 guiding principles of Code Compliance, Risk  
Assessment, Audit Participation, and Continuous  
Improvement, TSMC encourages supplier partners to  
continue improving, commit to essential values, and take  
the initiative to promote sustainable practices to their  
upstream suppliers. Together, TSMC and the suppliers are  
joining hands to build a responsible supply chain in the  
semiconductor industry. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 TSMC may reduce the trade volume or terminate trade with suppliers that fail to meet the  requirements  Continuous Improvement 
 TSMC experts conduct on-site audits and require improvement Audit Participation  
Code Compliance 
Supply Chain  Management 
Risk Assessment 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC values sustainable supply chain development  
and requires suppliers to comply with the TSMC  
Supplier Code of Conduct, in which suppliers  
must follow the 4 guiding principles, and take  
responsibility for implementing the principles  
Implementing the Four Guiding Principles of Supply Chain Management 
 All suppliers are required to follow the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct, ensuring that all suppliers adopt a  consistent standard in management  
 Tier 1 suppliers are required to sign the Supplier Code of Conduct 
 Critical Suppliers are required to ask their upstream suppliers, contractors, and service providers to  commit and adhere to the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct  
 Determining the level of Code compliance of Tier 1 suppliers via Sustainability Self-Assessment  Questionnaire to assess risks  
  Assessment by the TSMC experts, identifying serious violations and prioritizing management tasks  
 Monitor suppliers with serious violations, following their continuous improvement to reduce future risks 
 Requiring suppliers to assess and mitigate climate change risks 
 Critical suppliers are required to conduct third-party audits  TSMC monitors audit results and  require improvement 
 TSMC provides consultation or assistance and arranges for follow-up inspections for improvement 
in practice. The Four Guiding Principles are the  
embodiment of TSMC s core belief in establishing a  
responsible supply chain. These measures benefit  
all parties and guides the semiconductor supply  
chain to a virtuous cycle. 
Code Compliance 
The TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct is based on  
the Code of Conduct by Responsible Business  
Alliance (RBA). It requires suppliers to comply  
with the Code of Conduct while encouraging  
them to ask their upstream suppliers, contractors,  
and service providers to approve and adopt  
the same code in practices and management as  
well. New suppliers must sign the TSMC Supplier  
Code of Conduct to be eligible for partnership.  
This is to ensure that the suppliers understand  
TSMC s sustainability requirements, comply with  
Compliance   Management Summary of  Supplier Code of Conduct 
completion rate was 100%.  Note: Since 2018, TSMC formally de nes Tier 1 suppliers as suppliers trading with TSMC directly with more than two orders per year, which are mainly fee-based 
Percentage of Suppliers that Signed the Supplier Code of Conduct 
Number of Tier 1 suppliers 
1,229 1,226 1,349 
2018 2019 2017 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
the commitment, and undergo risk assessments  
and audits in future collaborations.  In 2019, the  
scope of the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct  
extended to Tier 1 suppliers of TSMC subsidiaries,  
such as TSMC (Shanghai) and TSMC (Nanjing), to  
cover TSMC supply chains worldwide. 
Risk Assessment 
To better understand the status of the supplier,  
TSMC evaluates supplier performance via the  
Sustainability Self-Assessment Questionnaire  
(SAQ), On-site Audit, Records of Serious  
Overview of Self-Assessment  Questionnaire Results  
Number of SAQs retrieved 
Percentage of SAQs retrieved 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2018 2019 2017 
1,229 1,226 26 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Violations, and TSMC experts, to identify the high- 
risk suppliers of the year. In 2019, TSMC identified  
109 high-risk suppliers across four categories,  
which are raw materials, spare parts, packaging  
testing, and waste processing. This way, TSMC  
effectively evaluates the sustainability risk of the  
entire supply chain. 
In 2019, Tier 1 suppliers in Taiwan, where the  
TSMC headquarters is located, completed  
908 Self-Assessment Questionnaires at the  
completion rate of 100%. The SAQ this year  
contains five major categories specified in  
Overview of Third-Party Supplier Audits 
Number of suppliers completing audits 
The target number of suppliers completing audits 
2019 2020 2018 
the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct - Labor,  
Health and Safety, Environmental requirements,  
Ethics, and Management. The SAQ results  
show the suppliers  awareness of sustainability  
management and allows TSMC to identify  
supplier risks. The SAQ results showed that  
compliance with the TSMC Supplier Code of  
Conduct by suppliers in Taiwan exceeded 96 on  
average. Among the items in the five categories,  
compliance with labor policies, especially work  
hours regulations, require the most improvement. 
TSMC is working with suppliers to mitigate  
climate change risks  we will continue to require  
suppliers with high energy consumption to  
conserve energy, reduce carbon emissions, and  
receive ISO14064-1 greenhouse gas certifications. 
Audit Participation and Continuous  Improvement 
Among Tier 1 suppliers, TSMC requires all  
critical suppliers to undergo third-party audits  
on sustainability risk by RBA-certified auditing  
institutions. Forty-six critical suppliers completed  
supplier audits in 2019, and TSMC expects all  
critical suppliers to complete third-party audit by  
2021, at the completion rate of 100%. The audit  
allows TSMC to evaluate actual risks and enhance  
the overall performance of the suppliers. For  
high-risk suppliers, the TSMC experts conducted  
on-site audits and required improvements. The  
Note 1: For the auditing results, please refer to the Waste Management section. Two companies  serve both as raw materials suppliers and waste disposal partners, and were audited by two  separate Teams of Experts Note 2: Priority violations are the most severe violations of the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct,  including environmental pollution, severe legal violations, hiring child labor or forced labor 
2019 Supplier Audit Results 
          Suppliers Audited Note 1           Suppliers Audited Note 1 
          Audit Methods            Audit Methods  
          Audit Results and Actions  
          Distribution of Audit Violations            Distribution of Audit Violations  
Organization and System of  
Environmental, Safety, and  
Health Management  
Pollution Prevention  
Climate Change Note 5 
Hazardous Substance  
Management  
Safety Management  
Occupational Safety and Health  
Fire Protection Management and  
Fire Prevention  
Earthquake Protection  
Emergency Response  
TSMC Experts 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Follow-up Actions  
Violations  
57Raw Materials, Spare Parts, and Packaging  Testing Suppliers 59 On-site Audits  
    Insu cient maintenance of  re protection, and lack of awareness and knowledge  in occupational safety and health  
    Require suppliers to appoint a person in charge of  re protection, and enhance   re protection training  
    Continue to hold experience-sharing workshops  emphasizing audit violations  and improvement in 2020  
    Compile the TSMC Supplier Sustainability Standard, which encompasses the major  audit violations, and require suppliers to sign and comply with the Standard 
Minor        Violations Note 4 66.2% 
Major         Violations Note 3 33.6% 
1.1% Priority           Violations Note 2 0% 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Note 3: Major violations refer to the lack of systematic management, legal violations that could be  corrected immediately, and signi cant discrepancies between implementation and proper  ESH procedures, such as daily operations not adhering to ESH procedures, legal violations  that could be recti ed quickly and have no ESH impact or the lack of necessary ESH  procedures 
Safety Management  
Occupational Safety and Health  
Fire Protection Management and  
Fire Prevention  
Earthquake Protection  
Emergency Response  
Organization and System of  
Environmental, Safety, and  
Health Management  
Pollution Prevention  
Climate Change Note 5 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
          Audit Results and Actions  
Third-Party Auditing Institutions  
Management System  
Note 4: Minor violations refer to deviations from ESH procedures in practice and implementations  or lack of documentation, such as incomplete training records, not fully comforming to ESH  procedures or incomplete ESH procedures Note 5: Climate change audits focus on greenhouse gas emissions and responding measures for  natural disasters caused by climate change  
Follow-up Actions 
    Enhancing compliance on work hours for supply chain workers  
    Establishing a transparent management system  
    Require the suppliers to establish a more comprehensive policy on human  rights, examine the timeliness of labor human rights regulations, and enhance  internal education and implementation  
    Continues to ask the suppliers to improve and eliminate violations  
46 Critical Suppliers  46 Third-party Supplier Audits on Sustainability Risk by RBA-certi ed Auditing  Institutions  
Violations  
Violations 5% 
Minor  Violations 48% 
Major  Violations 47% 
Management System  
Supplier Risk Assessment Process and Results  
Management 
Environment 
Health  and Safety  
100%   Completion Rate of On-site Audits 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
High-risk Suppliers 
Self-Assessment  Questionnaire 
On-site Audit Result  
Records of Serious  Violations  
TSMC Experts'  Opinion 
        100% 
TSMC cares about the sustainability of the  
environment, the society, and the economy,  
aiming to improve supply chain management and  
influence the industry towards sustainability by  
building a responsible supply chain. Therefore,  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Continuously Improving Supply Chain Sustainability 
Ensure Labor Rights 
Strengthen Supply Chain Resilience 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC set two strategies   Sustainability Risk  
Management and Local Supply Optimization    
based on the five core categories stated in the  
TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct: Labor, Health and  
Safety, Environmental Requirements, Ethics, and  
Sustainability Risk  Management 
Two Policies  
Local Supply Chain  Optimization  
Management, to ensure continuous improvement.  
Five Action Plans have been created based on  
these core values, propelling TSMC s path towards  
sustainability into a positive cycle. 
Process Advancement and  Quality Improvement  
Reduce Environmental  Impact  
Ensure Occupational  Safety and Health 
Responsible Supply Chain Action Plan 
Energy saving Climate change risk 
Hazardous substance management 
2019 2020 2021 2022 
     100% of Tier 1 suppliers signed the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct and  Sustainability Management Self- Assessment Questionnaire 
    100% of the high-risk suppliers  underwent TSMC on-site audits 
     Required critical suppliers to  conduct annual self-assessment for  their upstream suppliers 
     Initiated Supply Chain  Environmental Pro t and Loss (E  P L) Assessment Project 
     Launched the project of Supply  Chain 360 System 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Procured 100% of the raw  materials from smelters approved  by Responsible Minerals Assurance  Process (RMAP) 
Waste reduction 
Pollution prevention Fire protection management 
Environmental Social Economy 
Carbon emission reduction Labor policy 
     Goals for increasing local sourcing:  
     Reduce waste production among  major local suppliers by 29.1% 
     A total of 38 local raw materials  suppliers receive consultation on  process advancement and quality  improvement  
     Work with suppliers to develop  Electronic-grade Materials  Recycling Mechanisms  
     Low carbon emission process and  sourcing: New fabs adopt water  electrolysis method for bulk gas 
   60% for indirect raw materials 
   50% for spare parts 
   36% for backend equipment 
Water saving 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Occupational safety  and health 
     100% of the critical suppliers receive  third-party audits by RBA-certi ed  auditing institutions 
     Complete the Supply Chain  Environmental Pro t and Loss (E P L)  Assessment Project 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Code of ethics Industry localization 
Con ict-free minerals 
Development of energy-saving equipment  
Quality and process advancement Circular economy 
     A total of 145 local raw materials suppliers receive  consultation on process advancement and quality  improvement 
     Goals for increasing local sourcing: 
     Reduce waste production among major local suppliers  by 35% 
     Provide consultation on power reduction for supplier and  reduce energy consumption by a total of 1,500 GWh 
   64% for indirect raw materials 
   60% for spare parts 
   46% for backend equipment 
Capacity and inventory management 
Business continuity plan 
Sustainability Risk Management 
TSMC aspires to grow along with suppliers and create a work environment that guarantees the dignity of  
the workers and ethical business conduct. To this end, TSMC is committed to auditing and consultation  
for suppliers to ensure continuous improvement in terms of compliance, labor rights, ESH practices, and  
emergency response. In 2019, TSMC continued to deepen its efforts to strengthen supply chain resilience  
Note 1: In 2019, there were still instances of supplier employees working at TSMC factory sites working for seven consecutive days. TSMC has stressed the importance of work hour management  Note 2: Added violation penalties to the order form in 2018, and the practice continued in 2019 
     Since TSMC's supply chain is mainly located in areas with  frequent earthquakes, inadequate emergency response  capacity would result in a higher risk of supply disruption  due to the disaster 
     The supply chain must continue improving code  compliance, labor rights, and ESH measures  
     Employees working consecutively for seven days  
     Insu cient workplace safety rules for contractors and  subcontractors at TSMC factory sites  
     Contractors do not pay downstream subcontractors on  time  
     Contractors do not sign the TSMC Code of Ethics or Supplier  Code of Conduct  
     Contractor compliance with regulations on sourcing  con ict-free mineral raw materials 
             Problems   Challenges             Tactics   Actions                                                                      Performance  Number of  Suppliers  
Action Plans Safeguard Labor Rights 
Action Plans Strengthen Supply Chain Resilience 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
     The Supply Chain 360 system integrates communication channels with  suppliers, increasing the precision and timeliness of information  
     Continue to develop multi-source supply solutions        
     Invite suppliers to attend  TSMC observation and learning program of  annual emergency response drills   
     Require critical suppliers to receive third-party audits by RBA-certi ed  auditing institutions  
     TSMC (Nanjing) underwent RBA VAP certi cation 
     Quarterly review on supplier employees working for seven consecutive  days at TSMC factory sites: occurrence decreased by 50% in 2019 
     Strengthen workplace safety management for contractors, especially  on-site operational subcontractors and downstream subcontractors,  and specify penalties and  nes for workplace safety violations   
     Strengthen workplace safety management for contractors, including  workplace safety management in the comprehensive supplier  evaluation  
     Require contractors and subcontractors at all levels to sign the  Contract Labor Payment Implementation Measures statement  provided by TSMC 
     Require Tier 1 suppliers to sign and comply with the TSMC Code of  Ethics and Supplier Code of Conduct  
     Continue due diligence to ensure sourcing of 100% con ict-free  minerals 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
and labor rights, formulate emergency response measures, and reduce risks via auditing. TSMC, along  
with suppliers, are committed to the sustainable business growth. TSMC began establishing the Supply  
Chain 360 system in 2019, integrating communication channels with suppliers to exchange information  
swiftly, effectively, and seamlessly. 
(Tier 1 suppliers)  
     The procurement department works with the IT, quality control, ESH, and risk  management divisions to establish the Supply Chain 360 system 
     TSMC R D, quality control, and manufacturing departments work together to formulate  annual multi-source supply solutions, requiring suppliers to diversify production bases  and evaluate new suppliers to reduce the disruption risk of supply from single sources.  In 2019, TSMC completed the multi-source supply solutions for 56 items, including  chemicals and gases  
     In 2019, 22 suppliers attended the observation and learning program of  emergency  response drills and participated in emergency response center tours and response  equipment training programs  
     In 2019, 46 critical suppliers received third-party audits by RBA-certi ed auditing  institutions  
     TSMC (Nanjing) received RBA VAP certi cation 
     Quarterly reminder on the attendance of supplier employees working at TSMC factory  sites  
     Specify violation penalties in the order form. Once suppliers accept the order, they are  considered to have accepted the violation penalties Note    
     In 2019, United Integrated Services and Fu Tsu Construction received TSMC Outstanding  Supplier Awards   
     Require Tier 1 contractors to enclose proof of payment to subcontractors upon requesting  payment from TSMC, which is a necessary condition   
     Tier 1 suppliers signed the statement at the completion rate of 100%   
     Completed 100% of due diligence on con ict-free minerals sourcing for the supply chain  and took the initiative to monitor cobalt sources 
Case Study 
Sourcing Con ict-free Minerals 
As a leader in the global high-tech industry supply  
chain, TSMC supports sourcing con ict-free raw  
materials as a practice of humanitarianism and  
compliance with the ethical code of society. Therefore,  
TSMC adopted a series of compliance measures based  
on industry best practices, including the due diligence  
framework set by the Organization for Economic  
Cooperation and Development (OECD) Model Supply  
Con ict-free Minerals Management Process 
TSMC Statement  on Responsible  Sourcing of  Minerals 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
TSMC Suppliers' Report  
Reasonable  Country of Origin  Inquiry 
Chain Policy for a Responsible Global Supply Chain  
of Mineral from Con ict-A ected and High-Risk Areas.  
TSMC is also a  rm supporter of the Responsible  
Business Alliance (RBA) and Global e-Sustainability  
Initiative (GeSI), requiring suppliers to source con ict- 
free raw materials according to the Responsible  
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). TSMC requires  
suppliers to comply with its con ict-free minerals  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Due  Diligence Public Disclosure 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
sourcing policy and sign a statement on con ict-free  
minerals for products containing tantalum, tin, gold,  
and tungsten  Starting from 2019, TSMC has also  
begun disclosing the source smelters for the cobalt  
used in TSMC products to customers.  
TSMC Con ict-free Minerals Due Diligence 
Note: Disclosed information stated herein included direct suppliers of TSMC factory sites in Taiwan and TSMC subsidiaries, WaferTech, TSMC (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra  
Number of suppliers Percentage of con ict-free minerals usage 
Number of smelters complying with rules on con ict-free minerals 
100% 100% 100% 100% 
Number of suppliers certi ed by  2019 TSMC Con ict-free Minerals  Due Diligence 
Tier 1 suppliers 
Local Supply Chain Optimization 
Local supply chain optimization is a critical TSMC procurement strategy, which aims to ensure corporate sustainability by  
providing consultation and diverse resources for suppliers and by sharing TSMC experience, for strengthening suppliers   
capabilities for emergency response, process advancement, and quality improvement. By working together, TSMC and suppliers  
can solve environmental issues e ectively with reduced processing costs and counter the rising costs caused by climate change  
and resource depletion. TSMC also requires suppliers to comply with the Code of Conduct, reduce energy consumption and  
waste in the supply chain, recycle resources, and propel the progress of the supply chain. 
Note 1:TSMC held 2019 Advanced Process Materials Forums in May and September 2019, and the theme was Analysis on Organic Pollutants in Semiconductor Materials  Note 2:In 2019, TSMC worked with Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Ministry of Labor, and Professor Lin Yu-Wen from Fu Jen Catholic University for the third consecutive year, inviting twenty-one suppliers in  spare parts washing, pump maintenance, and  ltration material maintenance for washing  towers to participate in the Supply Chain Occupational Safety and Health Promotion Project. Through document review and on-site inspections, TSMC o ered advice on improving management procedures and workplace environment, hardware construction, and promoting labor health 
     Challenges in improving measurement technology,  enhancing quality, and expanding output capacity for  advanced processes  
     The performance of occupational health safety and health  management of several local suppliers have not met  TSMC requirements  
     Reduce environment impact, energy consumption, and  resource depletion caused by localized manufacturing  
             Problems   Challenges             Consultation Tactics   Actions                          2019 Performance  Number of  Suppliers  
Action Plans Process Advancement  and Quality Improvement 
Action Plans Ensure Occupational Safety and Health  
Action Plans Reduce Environmental Impact 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
     Hold two 2019 Advanced Process Materials Forums  Note 1    
     Provide consultation for suppliers on capacity deployment, improving  advanced measurement technology, and enhancing manufacturing  quality  
     Continue to work with third-party consultants to provide on-site  consultation for suppliers to improve suppliers' occupational safety  and health performance Note 2    
     Hold Responsible Supply Chain Forum and Environmental,  Safety, and Health Experience-sharing Workshops to provide on- site consultation for suppliers, o ering advice on environmental  protection and occupational safety and health, and requiring tangible  actions for improvement  
     Increase the proportion of local sourcing, set sourcing targets for  indirect raw materials, spare parts, and backend equipment  
     Require top ten waste-producing suppliers to continuously reduce  waste and report on the progress made each year   
     Formulate Electronic-grade Materials Recycling Mechanisms, and  assemble implementation teams  
     Procure raw materials made with environmentally friendly processes  
     Require local suppliers with higher energy consumption to reduce  power usage  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC s sharing of its practical experience and know-how with us is extremely helpful for  improving ESH professionalism and capabilities in our factory. 
     Invited 33 material suppliers for advanced processes to the event  a total of 150 people  participated in discussions on the future road map for the quality of advanced processes, driving  synchronized growth for suppliers and TSMC 
     Completed 77 quality improvements for materials of advanced processes  28 suppliers completed  
     TSMC invited suppliers exposed to occupational safety and health risks to participate in the  Supply Chain Occupational Safety and Health Improvement Program  21 suppliers joined in 2019.  TSMC and consultants visited the factory sites, requesting improvements on noise and ventilation  for environments where chemicals are used 
     Held a Responsible Supply Chain Forum, in which representatives from 150 suppliers participated,  to elaborate on TSMC requirements and audit violations, and to propose relevant responses and  measures to counter such risks  
     Held four Environmental, Safety, and Health Experience-sharing Workshops, o ering TSMC on- site experience accumulated in the past years. Approximately 500 representatives from suppliers  participated  
     Presented the Environmental, Safety, and Health Award to Chang Chun Petrochemical Company 
     59% for indirect raw materials, 50% for spare parts, 34% for backend equipment 
     Waste production of supplier business units reduced by 28.5% (Target: 28.5%) 
     Evaluated the technology of current electronic-grade chemicals suppliers and electronic-grade  materials recycling vendors  
     Procured bulk gas made with environmentally friendly processes: using the electrolysis method  to produce hydrogen to reduce carbon emissions  
     Asked 12 local suppliers that consume 5 GWh and above per year to reduce power consumption  by 97 GWh  
100% of capacity deployment according to the mass production needs for 7 nm and 5 nm  processes  
Chen Yun-Yu EHS Vice President of Air Products San Fu- TSMC Supplier 
First Integration of Responsible Supply  Chain Forum and TSMC Supply Chain  Management Forum  
In 2019, TSMC integrated its Responsible Supply Chain  
Forum with the TSMC Supply Chain Management  
Forum for the  rst time, resulting in an increase in  
the attendance of high-level managers from supplier  
companies by 71%. It shows the determination of  
TSMC and suppliers for sustainability  by elevating the  
level of communication, the suppliers gain a better  
understanding of TSMC standards and requirements  
on environmental protection, occupational safety and  
health, and disaster management. In the forum, TSMC  
Percentage of Local Sourcing  in Taiwan  
2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 
Spare parts 
Indirect raw materials Backend equipment  
33 33 34 36 40 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: % Percentage of Local Sourcing  in China  
reiterated its expectations for the suppliers to pursue the  
UN SDGs12 - to ensure sustainable consumption and  
production patterns, and to work with TSMC to ful ll  
corporate social responsibility. Suppliers and TSMC  
will continue to implement environmental protection  
policies, focus on reducing energy consumption, carbon  
emissions, and water usage, prevent pollution, and  
facilitate a circular economy. 
Also, in the Supply Chain Management Forum, TSMC  
conducted its  rst questionnaire surveying the suppliers   
awareness on sustainability strategies and future  
directions, quality control mechanisms, auditing,  
compliance, and implementation of the code of business  
2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 
Spare parts 
Direct raw materials Indirect raw materials 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: % Percentage of Local Sourcing  in United States  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Continue to Promote the Upgrade of  Local Supply Chain  
TSMC s main production site is located in Taiwan.  
Its procurement can be divided into six categories:  
equipment, spare parts, raw materials, facility services, IT,  
and goods. The Company s headquarters is responsible  
for all  procurement. To build a sustainable supply chain,  
ethics. Over 84% of the suppliers responded that  
sustainability strategies require the most emphasis  the  
survey shows that TSMC s dedication to a sustainable  
supply chain and the continuous requirement for  
suppliers to be responsible for their upstream supply  
chain have borne fruitful results. 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 
Equipment  Spare parts 
Direct raw materials Indirect raw materials 
others each have independent procurement units, as a  
part of the TSMC global supply chain, these subsidiaries  
also push for supply chain localization since enhancing  
the capabilities of local suppliers would bene t both the  
suppliers as well as TSMC. 
TSMC considers improving the sustainability of the local  
semiconductor industry to be a critical goal and views  
the continuous upgrade of the local supply chain as an  
essential strategy. In 2019, TSMC devoted to the following  
management measures: 
Localizing the supply chain increases supply  exibility,  
shortens development time for new products, and cuts  
unnecessary costs while reducing carbon emissions of  
the supply chain and ensures the quality and e ciency  
of customer service. For many years, TSMC has set local  
sourcing targets and has continued to promote local  
procurement. Although subsidiaries including TSMC  
(China) Note2 , TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech in the US and  
    Set targets for local sourcing Note1 to increase or maintain  
    Proactively improve the technological levels and  
     Invite international companies to set up factories in  
Note 1: Local sourcing refers to the suppliers that manufacture or process  in the local area  Note 2: Starting in 2019, the volume of local sourcing in China include  that of TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing). 100% of the equipment  procured is currently 100% imported, while the percentage of local  
the percentage of local sourcing  
quality of suppliers of critical equipment, spare parts,  
and raw materials to increase local sourcing  
Taiwan, elevating the entire supply chain  
sourcing for spare parts is lower because TSMC (Nanjing) uses  imported spare parts  
2019 Results of Consultation for Local Raw Materials Suppliers on Process Advancement and Quality Improvement 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Capacity increase Capacity Deployment 
Improve Advanced  Measurement  Technology 
Improve Environment,  Safety, and Health  Performance 
Consult on Spart Part  Development for  Advanced Processes 
Scope of Consultation  Problems  Improvement Methods  Categories   Number of Suppliers  
1 Backend supplier 
3 Chemicals suppliers 2 Photoresists suppliers 1 Gases supplier  
5 Chemicals suppliers 1 Photoresists supplier 8 Gases suppliers 
2 Spare parts maintenance suppliers 1 Spare parts coating supplier 1 Spare parts machining supplier 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Failed to establish an Environment, Safety,  and Health Management system  
 Failed to identify or reduce  re risks 
 Capacity insu cient to meet advanced  process requirements  
 Measurement technology insu cient to meet  advanced process requirements 
 The percentage of imported, high-level  spare parts for several advanced processes  is still too high, as local suppliers lack critical  processing technology  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
 Production line expansion  
 Add analytical instruments and  methods  
 Establish an Environment, Safety, and Health  management system and receive ISO45001  third-party certi cation  
 Identify  re risks, and improve measures to  reduce  re risks 
 Assemble experts to provide consultation for  local suppliers, specify areas for development,  o er technological training, and assist in  certi cation, bene tting both the suppliers  and TSMC  
From Failed to Intermediate 
Zero rejects 
Detection threshold  
increased by 10% 
Capability for IC material analysis 
Improved audit scores by 25%  
 51 items have been completed 
There are 381 items planned 
Achievements  
Case Study 
Project  evaluation  
Collaboration with Taiwan  Specialty Chemicals Corporation -  TSMC 2019 Outstanding Supplier  Award Winner for Breakthrough  in Quality 
Supply chain localization not only ensures source and quality stability for TSMC materials  working with local  raw materials suppliers allows TSMC to improve the production quality of critical raw materials, expand  capacity, reduce the carbon footprint for the supply chain, and strengthen supply chain sustainability. 
Localization Maximizes Production Bene t of Critical Raw Materials  
TSMC products require a specialty gas - Disilane (Si2H6). Due to the high purity and precision necessary for  semiconductor production, the technological barrier led TSMC to procure this gas from overseas suppliers.  In 2017, TSMC assembled an inter-departmental project team consisting of experts in supply chain material  management, quality and reliability, and facility services, to provide consultation for a local semiconductor  raw materials supplier, Taiwan Specialty Chemicals Corporation, on Disilane production. After multiple on-site  audits and technology exchanges, the Disilane produced by the Taiwan Specialty Chemicals Corporation now  meets advanced processes requirements from TSMC.   
In 2019, Taiwan Specialty Chemicals Corporation received a TSMC Outstanding Supplier Award, which is the  evidence of synchronized growth for both local suppliers and TSMC.  
Collaboration Process of TSMC and Local Raw Materials Supply Chain  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Factory audit Technological  consultation 
Quality  con rmation  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Production  initiation  
Forging an Advanced Local Supply Chain  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Formulate the  production plan  in Taiwan 
TSMC took the initiative to establish a more e ective supply chain, systematically inviting foreign companies to  set up factories in Taiwan. By doing so, TSMC  rstly reduces supply chain procurement risk, and secondly, o ers  the local region employment and business opportunities, further strengthening supply chain sustainability. 
Invite International Companies  to Produce in Taiwan 
Japanese manufacturer EBARA is the second  largest supplier of semiconductor vacuum pumps  worldwide. Responding to TSMC's dedication  to localization and sustainability. EBARA set  up factories in Taiwan upon TSMC's invitation.  This venture allows EBARA to keep in step with  customer demands, as well as improve company  competitiveness relying on TSMC's in uence in the  global semiconductor industry. 
Provide Consultation for Manufacturing Processes, Bene ting Both the  Suppliers and TSMC  
EBARA has manufactured spare parts in Taiwan since 2011, while TSMC assists in product quality certi cation. TSMC  has been closely involved in product enhancement as well as design improvement for spare parts, offering timely  assistance. As a result, EBARA managed to reduce overall manufacturing cost, improve output capacity and e ciency,  and become more competitive in the global market. Meanwhile, EBARA's marginal e ect on the supply chain helped to  elevate Taiwan's manufacturing capabilities for pump-related spare parts, bene ting the entire supply chain.  
As of 2019, EBARA has fully supported TSMC's expansion in capacity for advanced processes, and the products  manufactured in Taiwan, in return, were sold by the parent company in Japan to customers worldwide. EBARA's  capacity in Taiwan has surpassed 80%, making Taiwan a critical source for vacuum pump spare parts in the world.  
Five Stages of Supplier Setting Up Factories in Taiwan 
Establish an  assembly line for   nished products  
Localization of  non-critical spare  parts  
Invitation to International  Spare Parts Giant, EBARA, for  Establishing Facilities in Taiwan 
Matching spare  parts suppliers  
Certi cation  for spare parts  products 
Localization of  critical spare  parts 
TSMC   Assistance 
Sell spare parts  back to Japan  
Provide  consultation for  Environmental,  Safety, and   
Improve spare  parts supplier  capabilities  
Green Manufacturing 
A Practitioner of Green Power 
TSMC s goal is to facilitate coexistence and mutual prosperity between business  and environment. Aiming to become a practitioner of green power, we assimilate  green management into our business and implement continuous improvement  projects in the areas of climate change, energy management, water management,  waste management, and air pollution control. We hope to protect our environment  while increasing the Company s value.  
Led the world to reach 93% reduction rate of fluorinated greenhouse gases  (F-GHGs) and nitrous oxide processing equipment exhaust  
133.7 Million Metric Tons 
Recycled 133.7 million metric tons of water in total 
  300 Million (NT ) 
Promoted the Circular Economy Project to create over NT 300 million of value  through recycling and waste reduction 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Drive Low-Carbon Manufacturing 
Continue to use best available technology to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), becoming an industry leader in low-carbon manufacturing 
Use Renewable Energy 
Continue to purchase renewable energy and establish solar-energy power systems, increasing the use of renewable energy 
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production (metric ton of  carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) 8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) by  40% (Base year: 2010) Note 
Renewable energy accounts for 20% of energy consumption of new fabs  starting from 3nm, and the purchasing of renewable energy to increase  annually to achieve 25% renewable energy for fabs and 100% renewable  energy for non-fab facilities 
Climate Change and Energy Management 
Note: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions includes reduction of  uorinated greenhouse  gas emissions. This indicator will be used as of 2020 to manage the performance of  various practices 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
910 GWh of Renewable Energy, Renewable Energy Certi cates (REC),   Carbon  Credit purchased, achieving 6.7% of TSMC s power consumption Target: All overseas sites use renewable energy 
Taiwan sites continued to negotiate 700MW of additional long-term renewable  energy purchases Target: Negotiating 
Reduced greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production (metric ton of carbon  dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) 8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) by 17%  Target: 16.5% 
Reduced  uorinated greenhouse gas (F-GHG) emissions per unit of production  (MTCO2e 8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) by 65% Target: 60% 
Total  uorinated greenhouse gases emissions decreased 15% Target: 15% 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production1  (metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2e) 8-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) by 18% 
Continue to purchase renewable energy until it makes up  7% of TSMC s energy consumption, and overseas sites use  100% renewable energy 
(Continued on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Increase Energy E ciency 
Plan for new energy-saving measures each year and actively implement energy-saving measures, increasing the e ciency of energy productivity 
Strengthen Climate Resilience 
Establish climate change countermeasures and preemptive precautions, lowering the risks of climate disasters 
Double energy e ciency after  ve years of mass production for each process  technology  Note 1 Energy e ciency of 16-nm and above process technologies in the  fth year of  mass production improved 1.4 times on average  energy e ciency of 10-nm  technology in the third year of  mass production improved 0.7 times on average Target: NEW 
Save 5,000 GWh cumulatively between 2016 and 2030 through implementation  of new energy-saving measures 300 GWh energy saved, and cumulatively saved 1,200 GWh Target: 200 GWh  1,100 GWh Energy saving goal of 400 GWh, and total energy savings of  1,600 GWh 
0 days of production interruption due to climate disasters 0 days of production interruption due to climate disasters Target: 0 days 0 days of production interruption due to climate disasters 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Target: Reduction of 11.5% 
Energy consumption per unit of production increased 17.9% (Base year: 2010)  Note 2 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Process energy e ciency of 10-nm process technology  improves 0.8 times in fourth year of production 
Note 1: Energy e ciency is the product equivalent per each kWh of power (8- inch equivalent wafer-mask layer kWh) 
Note 2: The increased complexity of new process technologies and  manufacturing processes results in increased power consumption in  new process equipment, causing the power consumption of  10-nm  processes to be double that of  16-nm technologies 
In 2019, the European Parliament declared a  
climate emergency in response to the frequent  
climate disasters around the world. TSMC effectively  
adapted to the potential impacts of climate  
disasters on business operations by strengthening  
climate-resilient designs for its facilities and  
reinforcing emergency response disaster drill  
plans. Furthermore, the Company purchased 910  
GWh of renewable energy and improved its energy  
management, investing additional resources to  
the development of energy-saving designs for  
production equipment. Through a series of relentless  
efforts, carbon emissions per unit of production  
continued to decrease, effectively mitigating  
greenhouse gas emissions. 
In 2019, TSMC reported steady decreases in carbon  
emissions per unit of production while it continued  
to expand production capacity and develop  
new technologies. As declared in the Corporate  
Social Responsibility Policy and Environmental  
Protection Policy, responding to climate change is  
the responsibility of sustainable business such as  
TSMC. Striving to become a world leader in green  
manufacturing is our mission. We believe that  
only through cooperation with business partners,  
industry, government, academia, and all of society  
can we work together to overcome the severe  
challenges of climate change. 
With the continuous advancement of process  
technology, integrated circuits are growing increasingly  
complex and therefore, the power required to  
manufacture them continues to grow. Even though  
in 2019 TSMC invested considerable resources into  
the development of renewable energy and green  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
tools, implemented 503 energy-saving measures, and  
introduced new energy-saving equipment, energy  
consumption per unit of production still did not reach  
the anticipated reduction goals. With a commitment to  
green manufacturing, TSMC will continue to purchase  
renewable energy and expand renewable energy power  
generation to increase the percentage of renewable  
energy in TSMC s energy structure, reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions from production activities, and achieve  
the goals of greenhouse gas reduction. 
A History of Responses to Climate Change 
Green  House Gas  Regulatory  Restriction 
TSMC Actions 
Note  Science Based Targets Initiative, SBTi is an initiative jointly established by the Carbon  Disclosure Project (CDP), the  We Mean Business  Coalition, the UN Global Compact, and  the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). It aims for companies to set reductions in line with  the Paris Agreement 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
 GHG Reduction    Management Acts  (Taiwan) 
 COP21 in Paris 
 Published CSR policy 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
   Published  Environmental Policy 
   Carbon Management  Platform launched 
  Established "TSMC  Energy Saving and  Carbon Emission  Reduction Committee" 
TSMC established the Corporate Social Responsibility  
Executive Committee in 2019. Led by the Chairman,  
TSMC s management team examines a variety of  
corporate sustainable development issues, and climate  
change received the greatest focus. In addition to  
biannual reviews, the CSR Executive Committee must  
report the company s climate actions and outcomes to  
the Board of Directors every year. Extreme climate and  
global warming may lead to potential business crises,  
and therefore TSMC is focused on three main goals:  
 Trial Procedures of Shanghai Municipality on Carbon Emission   Administration (Shanghai, China) 
 Clean Air Rule (Washington State, U.S.) 
 The Paris Agreement 
 Created TSMC (China)  carbon credit   trade   ow 
 Renewable Energy Task  launched 
 Created internal carbon  pricing   impact  evaluation 
 Joined Science Based  Target initiative Note 
    Joined the Industrial  Development Bureau  Voluntary  Carbon Reduction Platform 
    Launched the Green Tools  Certi cation Project 
    Launched TSIA Energy-Saving  Work Platform  
    Overseas Locations Completed  Purchases of Renewable Energy 
compliance with regulations, energy conservation and  
carbon reduction, and the management of carbon assets.   
In 2019, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial  
Disclosures (TCFD) framework proposed by the Financial  
Stability Board (FSB) was used to identify TSMC s climate  
risks and opportunities. Based on the results, measures  
and goal management were established to e ectively  
track response progress and outcomes, thereby lowering  
the  nancial impact of climate risks on business  
operation. 
 Signed Power Purchase  Agreement for 90 MW  (Megawatts) of renewable  power in Taiwan 
    June 2019 Established the  Corporate Social Responsibility  Executive Committee, led by  the Chairman 
    Obtained third-party  certi cation, becoming the   rst semiconductor company  to receive carbon credits under  the TM002 Method 
    Established Sustainable  Development Goals for 2030 
 Renewable Energy  Development Act  Amendment (Taiwan) 
TSMC Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
Governance 
Risk  Management 
Metrics and  Targets 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Board of Directors reviews climate change-related risks and opportunities 
   Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Committee  The Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Committee is TSMC's top management organization in climate change  management. The CSR Executive Committee is chaired by the Chairman, and the chair of the Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee serves is the executive secretary. It reviews TSMC's climate change strategies and goals every  six months and reports to the Board of Directors 
   The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee  Chaired by the Senior Vice President of Europe   Asia Sales, the CSR Committee promotes sustainability projects in  accordance with its strategies and goals and reviews implementation performance every quarter 
 Engage in cross-departmental discussions, and identify short-term, mid-term, and long-term climate risks and opportunities 
 Major climate risks and opportunities are evaluated for the potential impact to Company operations and  nance 
 Carry out scenario analyses and evaluate Science Based Targets (SBT) 
 Use the TCFD framework to construct TSMC's identi cation procedure for climate risks   
 Set appropriate response plans in accordance with climate risk identi cation and ranking results 
 Integrated climate risks identi cation and ranking in Enterprise Risk Management(ERM) process 
 Set management metrics related to climate change 
 Followed ISO 14064-1 to conduct regular inventory of greenhouse gas emissions to examine the impact on the  company's operations.  
 Drew up climate change management targets and examine progress and actual performance towards reaching the targets 
   The Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee  The Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee is the Company's management organization for taking  action on climate change risk and opportunity. It is chaired by the Senior Vice President of Fab Operations. Every  quarter, this Committee formulates management plans, reviews implementation status, and discusses future plans 
Corporate Management Strategies and Actions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
    Completed the Climate Change Risks and Opportunity Evaluation Project, and used the Carbon Pricing mechanism to  prompt the promotion and development of energy conservation and carbon reduction activities 
    Composed of high-level managers from various departments, the CSR Executive Committee was established in December  2019, to set long-term targets and development directions for climate change and renewable energy by 2030. For more  details, please refer to the section entitled "CSR Management" 
    The CSR Executive Committee Executive Secretary and Senior Vice President of Fab Operations jointly presented a report on  green manufacturing actions that save energy and reduce carbon, as well as the purchasing of renewable energy and future  practices to the Board of Directors, and received the board's support 
    The Senior Vice President of Information Technology and Materials Management   Risk Management presented a report on  climate change-related risk for water resources, power supply and natural disaster to the Board of Directors. Furthermore,  backup plans and hardware infrastructure have been established. 
    503 energy-saving measures, divided into eight categories, have been planned and implemented, saving 300 GWh of  electricity, and making TSMC the  rst semiconductor company in Taiwan to receive carbon credits under the TM002 Method.  For more details, please refer to the section entitled "Increase Energy E ciency" 
    Used the 2  C global warming scenario of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to analyze climate risks  during operation, and devised relevant mitigation measures that complied with the Adaptation policy framework for climate  change and developed strategies for renewable energy purchasing to meet SBT 
    The TCFD workshop was hosted. Through cross-departmental discussions, climate-related risks opportunities were  identi ed and ranked, and their  nancial impact was evaluated. 
    Reported climate-related risks opportunity evaluation results and  nacial impact to the chair of the Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee, and then carried out response plans 
    For more details, please refer to the section entitled "6.3 Risk Management" in the 2019 TSMC Annual Report 
    Researched and devised climate change performance indicators, including greenhouse gas emissions per unit of product,  renewable energy purchasing, total energy saved, and days of production interruption due to climate disasters. For more  details, please refer to the section entitled "Climate Change and Energy Management Strategies, Goals, and Outcomes" 
    In accordance with carbon inventory results, the risks of Scope 1 emissions were reduced e ectively because of continuous  implementation of carbon reduction actions. The risk of Scope 2 indirect greenhouse gas emissions due to electricity  consumption and the risk of Scope 3 due to supplier indirect emissions continue to increase. For more details, please refer to  the section entitled "Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Inventory" 
    Based on the results of cross-departmental discussions on climate risks and opportunities, nine opportunities and seven risks  have been identi ed in total. For more details, please refer to the section entitled "Climate Risk and Opportunity Matrix" 
    Set climate change and energy management goals for 2030 in accordance with climate change performance indicators while top  management performed reviews on implementation performance on a regular basis. For more details, please refer to the section  entitled "Climate Change and Energy Management StrategiesGoals, and Outcomes" and "GHG Reduction Standard Practices" 
2019 Implementation Status 
Risk   Opportunity 
Climate Risk Matrix 
With the support of top management, TSMC  has identi ed and ranked climate-related risks  and opportunities by following the TCFD. The  Company refers to international research reports  on climate risks and opportunities and conducts  
Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Matrix 
Short-term ( 3 years) Medium-term (3 5 years) Long-term ( 5 years) 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
cross-organizational evaluations of climate change  risks and response measures to identify potential  risks and possible opportunities in response  to climate change. TSMC has set policies and  solutions that encompass economic development,  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
environmental protection, and sustainable  development. The Company actively implements  energy saving, carbon reduction, and water-saving  plans  constructs green buildings, establishes  CO2 assets, develops energy-saving products  
Participate in carbon trading  renewable energy market 
Obtain government s cooperation and  reward 
Construct green buildings 
Increase e ciency of water  consumption and water recycling 
Develop low-carbon products and  serve the market 
Increase investors  willingness for long- term investment 
Strengthen resilience to natural  disasters 
Promote energy-saving and low-carbon  production 
Positive corporate image 
Opportunities 
and services, strengthens climate resilience, and  develops a culture of environmental sustainability. 
Impact on the Company s image 4 
Typhoon,  ooding 
Rising Temperature 
Energy resources greenhouse gas  laws and regulations 
Increase in Greenhouse gas emissions  costs 
Unstable energy supply 
Physical Risks 
Transition Risks 
Financial Impact Analysis of Climate Change 
GHG Restrictions and  Carbon Trading System 
Increase in Greenhouse gas  emissions costs 
Unstable Utilities (Water,  Electricity) 
Cost of Developing Low- Carbon Energy Saving  Products 
Impact on the  Company's Image 
Typhoon, Flooding 
Cost of Developing Low- Carbon Energy Saving  Products 
Climate Risks Climate Opportunities Potential Financial Impact Potential Financial Impact 2019 Actions 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Restriction on capacity expansion,  increase in operation costs 
Increased cost of installation and  operation for carbon reduction facilities  
Impact on production, increase  in operation costs 
Increased cost of developing low- carbon energy saving products 
Unable to satisfy the expectations  of stakeholders, impacting the  Company's reputation or image 
Production is a ected, causing   nancial losses and a decrease in  revenue 
Increase in energy demand, cost, and  carbon emissions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Participation in renewable  energy plans  Participation in carbon  trading market 
Obtain government's  reward and cooperation 
Construct green buildings 
Increase water resource usage  e ciency and use reclaimed  water sources 
Develop or increase energy- saving products or services 
Increase investors'  willingness for long-term  investment 
Increase resilience against  natural disasters 
Driving low-carbon green  manufacturing 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Early purchases of renewable  energy, successfully increasing  manufacturing capacity 
Accumulate carbon credits in  preparation for future expansion  of manufacturing capacity 
Lower utility costs 
Strengthen climate resilience,  lower the impact of disasters on  production 
Satisfy customer demands for  energy saving products, increase  revenue 
Stabilize stakeholder structure,  lessen the risk of large stock   uctuations 
Strengthen climate resilience  and lower the risk of operation  interruption and potential losses 
Save energy and cut cost 
    Continued to negotiate the purchasing of additional long-term  renewable energy in Taiwan 
    910 GWh of Renewable Energy, Renewable Energy Certi cates (REC),  and Carbon Credit purchased 
    Applied for  uorinated greenhouse gas and nitrous oxide reduction  o set project to receive carbon credit 
    Acquired four green building certi cates 
    Maintained water recycling rate greater than 85% while designing new  fabs (Fab 18 Phase 2, Fab 15 Phase 7, and Fab 6 Phase 2)  
    Invested in the development of energy-saving products 
    Boosted green production 
    Fab 18 Phase 2 committed to using and developing reclaimed water  
    Established a comprehensive water use monitoring system 
    Conserved 300 GWh of electricity through energy-saving projects 
    Raised the building base of Fab 18 Phase 2 two meters higher 
TSMC has long been committed to green  
manufacturing and aspires to be a world leader  
in low-carbon manufacturing. The Company  
performs yearly reviews of the overall effectiveness  
of carbon reduction based on third party-verified  
GHG inventory results. Because fluorinated  
greenhouse gas emissions and the indirect  
emission of GHGs due to power consumption are  
the two main sources of GHG emissions, TSMC has  
for many years continued to establish industry  
best-practice measures for GHG reduction,  
replacing and installing roughly 1,600 point-of- 
use abatement equipment for fluorinated GHGs  
and nitrous oxide in 2019. At the same time, the  
Company has continued to build green factories  
and constructed two additional facilities, acquired  
four green building certificates, and implemented  
energy-saving projects on production tools and  
utility facilities , while taking progressive steps to  
increase the use of renewable energy  to effectively  
reduce the emission of GHG per unit of production. 
Continue to Drive Low- Carbon Manufacturing 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Note: Data comparison with industry peers refers to the World Semiconductor Association Report 
GHG Reduction Standard Practices 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Indirect GHG  Emissions 
Direct GHG  Emissions 
TSMC Standard Practices 
 ISO 14064-1 inventory and third party  veri cation 
 Optimization of gas quantity used in  production 
 Substitute high global warming  potential (GWP) fabrication gases 
 Install Point-Of-Use abatement  equipment for  uorinated GHGs 
 Continue to develop on-site nitrous  oxide removal technology 
 ISO 50001 energy management and  third party veri cation 
 Construct green buildings 
 Energy e ciency standards 
 Next-generation fab tools use energy- saving, carbon-reducing designs 
 Introduce renewable energy 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
    Installed 1,500 POU abatement equipment on new process tools using F-GHG in new and existing fabs (including subsidiaries) 
    Continued to replace and upgrade 111 POU abatement equipment in existing fabs, with installation rate increased to 90% 
    All fabs and subsidiaries underwent inventory and third party veri cation 
    100% introduced GHG-optimized process parameters in accordance with the manufacturing speci cations of  the Intelligent Engineering Center 
    All 12-inch fabs are now using optimized carbon reduction technology   remote plasma dissociation of nitrogen  tri uoride (NF3), while 6-inch and 8-inch fabs are using nitrogen tri uoride(NF3) octa uorobutane(C4F8) 
    Continued to develop removal technology, and types of certi ed equipment increased from 3 to 5 
    After inclusion as new standard equipment in 2018, new comprehensive equipment was installed in Fab 18  
    The Company underwent ISO 50001 inspection and third party veri cation  100% of facilities in Taiwan  completed third party veri cation in 2019 
    The Company leads the global semiconductor industry with the largest LEED-certi ed building area and  constructed two more fabs, which received LEED certi cation and EEWH green architecture certi cation. In  total to date, 32 buildings have received LEED certi cations and 23 buildings received EEWH certi cations 
    Energy e ciency of advanced-technology fab tools leads industry peers, with 503 energy-saving measures  implemented and 300 GWh saved 
    Launched an energy conservation project for next-generation fab tools, and in 2019, implemented 110 energy  saving projects for 54 process tools. Four vendors completed energy-saving certi cation for 27 process tools 
    Leading semiconductor manufacturer in Taiwan, with 910 GWh of Renewable Energy, Renewable Energy  Certi cates (REC),   Carbon Credit purchased 
2019 Implementation Status 
Scope 1   GHG Emissions 
Note 1: The GHG Emission data of scope 1 and scope 2 included TSMC s facilities in Taiwan (wafer fabs, testing and assembly plants), WaferTech, TSMC (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. Note 2: The GHG Emission Intensity data of scope 1 and scope 2 included TSMC s wafer fabs in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  Note 3: Emission factor is based on data released in 2019 by the Bureau of Energy stating that 0.554 kg of CO2 equivalent   kWh, where 1 kg of CO2 equivalent  equals 6,805 kilojoules. 
greenhouse gases emissions per unit of production  
were reduced considerably by 65%, achieving the 2020  
reduction goal ahead of schedule. Indirect emissions  
Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Inventory 
In 2019, TSMC continued to implement the standard  
practices of the manufacturing process gases by  
optimizing the amount of use, minimizing the global  
warming potential (GWP), and maximizing the removal  
rate in exhaust, and comprehensively adopted the  
best available technology. By taking concrete actions,  
the Company has e ectively reduced 320 metric tons  
CO2e of direct emissions (Scope 1), of which  uorinated  
1,566,662 1,638,051 1,648,268 1,678,753 1,705,746 
GHG Emission of Taiwan Facilities 
GHG Emission of Subsidiaries 
GHG Emission Intensity (tCO2e   8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) 
0.0022 0.0024 0.0027 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
0.0020 0.0019 
Unit: metric ton CO2e 
Scope 2   GHG Emissions 
(Scope 2) due to energy consumption were also curbed  
as a result of increased use of renewable energy. Indirect  
emissions (Scope 3) of upstream and downstream  
value chains mainly involve raw material production  
and energy-related activities. Currently, TSMC has set  
energy conservation and carbon reduction goals with its  
suppliers to work together toward creating a sustainable  
supply chain. Because GHG emission reduction accounts  
for  uorinated greenhouse gases emissions, the term  
 GHG emission per unit of production  will be used as of  
2020 to indicate future management performance. 
4,315,766 5,702,511 5,030,647 6,673235 6,325,931 
GHG Emission of Taiwan Facilities 
GHG Emission of Subsidiaries 
GHG Emission Intensity (tCO2e   8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) 
0.0062 0.0063 0.0061 0.0059 0.0061 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: metric ton CO2e 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Scope 3   GHG Emissions 
TSMC pays close attention to the various climate actions  
following the Paris Agreement, including the science- 
based targets (SBT) of holding the increase in the global  
temperature to well below 2  C and the 100% renewable  
energy (RE100) initiative. TSMC is well aware that using  
renewable energy is the necessary and primary approach  
for existing companies to achieve the SBT reduction goal.  
TSMC has continued to grow its production capacity  
in recent years. Thus, its overall carbon emissions are  
still increasing, despite the Company s global e orts to  
implement best practices for energy conservation and  
Purchased Services and  Products (SimaPro model) 
Operational Waste Management  (EPA CFP Database) 
Fuel and Energy Related  Activities (EPA CFP Database) 
Upstream Logistics (EPA CFP  Database) 
Downstream Logistics (EPA  CFP Database) 
Employee Commute (EPA CFP  Database) 
Business Travel Abroad  (Boustead model) 
Unit: metric ton CO2e 
Note 1: Greenhouse gas emissions including Scope 1 2 are normalized on  2017 as baseline. Note 2: TSMC began introducing Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in  2017, which is the base year for reduction. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction  Roadmap 
carbon reduction, and achieved the goal of reducing  
carbon emission per unit of production. Moreover, the  
renewable energy markets in TSMC s major production  
bases are not equipped to supply as much renewable  
energy as other European and American countries.  
In addition to constantly strengthening various green  
innovations, TSMC also actively promotes regional  
renewable energy development to identify potential  
opportunities for carbon reduction. 
Actual carbon emissions 
Carbon emissions pathway with reduction plans 
Carbon emissions pathway without reduction 
Science-based targets  
Energy  conservation and  carbon reduction  measures Use renewable  energy 
TSMC has been actively installing, using, and purchasing  
renewable energy in 2019. In addition to compliance with  
legal obligations, our aim is for 25% of power consumed  
and non-fab power consumption is 100% supplied from  
is to purchase renewable energy until it makes up 100%  
of TSMC s power consumption. Through purchasing of  
sustainability. 
renewable energy policies, TSMC hopes to drive the  
Renewable Energy Purchasing 
Starting in 2018, TSMC began to purchase renewable  
energy, RECs, and carbon credits in countries with  
comprehensive regulations and ample supply, aiming  
to completely 100% o set the carbon dioxide emissions  
from the power used in locations around the world such  
as the United States, Canada, Europe, China, and Japan.  
In 2019, TSMC s overseas sites have achieved the goal of  
zero carbon emissions from power consumption. 
In 2019, TSMC developed strategies to increase the  
purchasing of renewable energy in Taiwan. Around  
0.7GWh of renewable energy is currently under  
negotiation, which will be supplied to TSMC in the  
coming years. Since Taiwan s renewable energy  
development is still in its nascent phase, TSMC has  
by TSMC fabs to be supplied from renewable energy,  
renewable energy by the end of 2030. Our long-term goal  
renewable energy and supporting the government s  
application of renewable energy and development  
of related industries, and practice environmental  
Increase Use of Renewable Energy 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
set up a Renewable Energy Development Task Force  
through which it closely communicates with government  
through the Allied Association for Science Parks and the  
Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA) to  
provide constructive suggestions regarding renewable  
energy development. For example, TSMC has advised  
the government to expand o shore wind farms and  
increase the supply from renewable energy trading  
platforms. With the collaboration between the Ministry  
of Economic A airs, Taipower, Green energy companies  
and TSMC, renewable energy development in Taiwan  
has reached a key milestone. 90MW of renewable energy  
was o cially provided to TSMC in early May 2020,  
making TSMC one of the  rst companies in Taiwan to  
purchase retransmitted renewable energy.  
The highest governing body of TSMC the Board of  
Directors supports the UN SDGs of a ordable and  
clean energy and climate action, pays attention to  
renewable energy purchasing issues, and requires the  
Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Committee to  
regularly provide reports on renewable energy purchase  
strategies and progress. TSMC believes that close  
communication with the government and cooperation  
with renewable energy providers will accelerate the  
growth of Taiwan s renewable energy industry, which  
in turn increases the purchasing of renewable energy  
and reduces the environmental impact of power  
consumption. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Renewable Energy Development Timeline 
Use of Renewable Energy and Percentage 
Renewable Energy Purchased and Self-Generated Electricity (GWh) Percentage of Renewable Energy Used (%) 
 Purchased 100 GWh  of renewable energy,  becoming Taiwan's  largest renewable  energy purchaser 
2018 2015 2016 2017 2019 
 Purchased 200 GWh of renewable energy,  holding the title of Taiwan's largest renewable  energy purchaser 2 years in a row 
 In response to the Amendment to Electricity Act opening the electricity market, a renewable energy  team was established to evaluate renewable energy purchases 
 Joined the Taiwan Renewable Energy Certi cation Platform, and Fab 6 was among one of the  rst  semiconductor fabs to receive renewable energy certi cate 
 Purchased 100 GWh of renewable energy, 3 consecutive years as Taiwan's largest purchaser 
 Taiwan fabs signed a long-term  contract to purchase 90 MW  (Megawatts) of renewable energy 
 880 GWh in Renewable Energy,  Renewable Energy Certi cates (REC),    Carbon Credit purchased 
  Around 0.7GWh of renewable  energy is under negotiation 
  910 GWh of Renewable  Energy, Renewable Energy  Certi cates (REC),   Carbon  Credit purchased 
Installing a Renewable Energy Power  System 
Apart from purchasing renewable energy, TSMC has also  
installed solar panels at its sites, providing zero carbon  
emission renewable energy for fabs. In 2019, 1,720kWp  
of solar panel capacity was installed, and has already  
provided 3.7 GWh, decreasing carbon emissions by 1,975  
metric tons, or the annual carbon absorbed by 197,500  
trees. In 2020, an additional 655 kWp in capacity of solar  
panels will be added, and this is expected to generate  
up to 5.27 GWh of power. 
TSMC Renewable Energy Capacity   Generated 
Renewable Energy Capacity (kWp)  
Renewable Energy Generated (kWh) 
1,130,124 1,112,159 
18.7 18.7 32 572 572 572 
414 402 924 954 954 1,609 
880 880 937 1,426 3,129 3,129 
2016 2015 2017 2018 2019 2020 
0 0 0 0 16.5 16.5 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
STSP CTSP HSP Overseas 
Power Generated 
In light of the continuous growth of production  
capacity and the development of complex  
advanced manufacturing processes, improving the  
efficiency of production energy is a longstanding  
commitment for TSMC. In addition to setting  
energy-saving goals in 2019, TSMC also responded  
to the seventh SDG of the UN: Affordable and  
Increase Energy E ciency 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 1: Energy e ciency is normalized on the  rst Year of 7 10-nm mass production result Note 2: Data included TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. 
Annual Improvement of Process Energy E ciency 
clean energy. To meet our goal of doubling  
energy efficiency by 2030, TSMC has developed  
the Process Energy Efficiency Enhancement Plan,  
which aims to manage energy usage, increase  
power efficiency, and maximize production  
process efficiency to ultimately double the  
energy efficiency of each process technology  
40-nm process 28-nm process 16-nm process 7 10-nm process 
Fifth Year Year of Mass  Production Fourth Year Third Year Second Year First Year 
after its fifth year of mass production. In 2019, the  
energy efficiency of  16-nm process technology  
improved 1.4 times on average after five years of  
mass production, and the energy efficiency of 10- 
nm and 7-nm process technology also improved  
0.7 times on average after three years of mass  
production, reaching their targets for the year. 
 16-nm process energy e ciency  improved 1.4 X on average 
Comprehensive Energy Inventory and ISO50001 Third-Party Veri cation 
Energy management is an ongoing responsibility for  
TSMC. The Company is committed to systematically  
managing each kWh of power. All fabs in Taiwan have  
obtained ISO50001 energy management certification  
in 2019. Insisting on transparent and fair inspection  
and inventory, TSMC identifies improvement  
opportunities from its status quo  therefore, as of  
2019 following a comprehensive GHG inventory  
Focus of PDCA Implementation for Energy Management System 
Energy Inventory and Action Plan 
Comprehensively  conduct energy  inventory, analyze energy  consumption distribution  of equipment, and  formulate action plan for  energy conservation and  carbon reduction 
Management Review  and Continuous  Advancement 
Improve de ciencies according  to the gap between the current  situation and targets, and carry out  various improvement practices to  achieve goals, while setting targets  for the next phase 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Check Action 
through ISO 14604 verification, TSMC requires all of its  
fabs to complete the ISO50001 energy management  
third party verification every year and follow the  
Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) management model to  
strengthen their self-management mechanisms and  
continue to achieve energy conservation and carbon  
reduction targets. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Implementation and Operation 
Supervise, measure, and analyze  all implementation items,  control energy management  performance, and ensure energy  conservation goals are achieved 
Follow action plan  to implement energy  conservation and carbon  reduction actions, including  personnel training, facility  e ciency improvement, and  equipment replacement 
Supervision and  Measurement 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In 2019, TSMC consumed a total of 14,327 GWh in  
energy  with electricity making up 94.8%, natural gas  
coming second at 5.2%, and diesel with less than  
0.1%. Electricity is the main energy used to power  
TSMC s manufacturing equipment and fab systems.  
Natural gas is used in exhaust processing facilities  
to decrease the direct emission of fluorinated  
greenhouse gases and volatile organic compounds.  
Total Energy Consumption 
Non-renewable energy 
Natural gas 
Renewable energy 
Diesel fuel 
Note 1: Data included TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra Note 2: 1 cubic meter of natural gas 10.5 kWh of electricity  1 kWh  3,600  kilojoules 
Greenhouse Gas Emission Distribution 
Diesel is not used directly in production, but to  
run power generators and fire pumps during  
emergencies, power outages, or during annual  
maintenance. 
CO2   CH4 2% 
Electricity 75% 
In 2019, increases in advanced process development and  
process complexity led to increased power consumption  
in new process equipment, raising the power  
consumption per unit of 10nm and 7nm production  
to double that of  16-nm process technologies.  
Consequently, the overall power consumption per unit  
of production in 2019 increased by 17.9% compared  
to the base year and therefore did not achieve the  
default reduction target of 11.5%. For this reason,  
TSMC has increased its use of renewable energy each  
year and also extended its technological innovation to  
sustainable equipment designs. In 2019, the Company  
invested resources and collaborated with more suppliers  
to introduce complete energy-saving plans in the  
Power Consumption per  Unit of Production 
Note 1: Data included TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra Note 2: Diesel and natural gas are excluded from calculations as they are  not used for production 
Power Consumption per Unit of Production 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: kWh 8-inch equivalent  wafer mask layer 
development of next-generation process equipment,  
with the goal of saving 5,000 GWh of electricity by 2030. 
Expanding Energy Saving Measures 
At TSMC, the primary consumers of energy are  
production tools and fab facility systems. At the  
same time, the Company s Operations and Facilities  
organizations are the main advocates of energy  
conservation. TSMC s Energy Conservation and Carbon  
Reduction Committee has organized a comprehensive  
range of energy-saving activities in recent years, such  
as the cross-organizational Energy-Saving Idea  
Competition, which encourages employees to  
integrate energy-saving concepts in manufacturing  
TSMC 15-year Energy-Saving Targets 
Accumulated Energy Saved 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
900 GWh  Accumulated Energy  Saved in 2016 2018 
Increase of  300GWh 
300 GWh  2019 Additional  Energy Saved 
1,200 GWh  2019 Accumulated  Energy Saved 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
facilities. In 2019, TSMC has carried out a total of  
503 energy-saving measures spanning 8 different  
categories. These measures saved 300 GWh, which  
is equal to eliminating 160 thousand metric tons  
of carbon dioxide emissions, and saved NT 750  
million in utility fees. By cutting down on carbon  
dioxide emissions, NT 240 million was saved in  
potential external carbon costs. To further promote  
green innovation in the supply chain, TSMC has  
continuously worked with equipment suppliers to  
develop next-generation energy saving equipment.  
In 2019, 110 energy-saving projects were introduced  
to 54 equipment models, with 45 models reaching  
average energy savings of 12%, surpassing annual  
energy targets. 
16 Million Trees 
In 2019, TSMC conserved 300 GWh of  energy, reducing carbon emissions by  160,000 metric tons, which is the yearly  carbon sequestration rate of around 16  million trees 
Accumulated Energy Saved by 2030 
Vertical garden in TSMC Fab18 
TSMC Energy Conservation Measures 
Note: Carbon dioxide emission is 0.533 kg CO2e kWh  1 kWh 3,600 kilojoules 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Fab: All fabs Illumination Energy  Savings 
Air Conditioning   Energy Savings Fab: All fabs 
Enhanced   Performance Fab: All 12-inch fabs 
Measures  7.3GWh 
Measures 50.2GWh 
Measures 14.8GWh 
 Non-cleanroom intelligent lighting 
 Replace bulbs with LED lighting 
 Automatic temperature adjustment chilled  water energy saving system 
 AC Energy-saving Adjustments 
 Modi ed wet  lm for AC humidi er 
Energy Saved 27,000metric tons 
Energy Saved 4,000metric tons 
Energy Saved 8,000metric tons 
Reduced CO2 126 
Reduced CO2 
Reduced CO2 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Fab Energy  Savings 
Measures 45GWh 
Energy Usage  Management Fab: All fabs 
Standby Energy   Savings Fab: All fabs 
Measures 7.7GWh 
Energy Saved 24,000metric tons 
 Reduced cooling water for manufacturing processes 
 Reduced exhaust emissions from equipment 
 Uninterrupted power system energy-saving  mode 
 Optimize standby machine energy saving for  Point-of-Use waste gas treatment system 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Energy Saved 4,000metric tons 
Reduced CO2 
Production  Equipment  Energy Savings 
Reduced CO2 
Unit Replacement Fab: F3 F2 5 F6 F8 
Procurement  Requirements 
Equipment Adjustments Fab: All fabs 
Measures 9GWh 
Measures 77GWh 
Measures 90GWh 
 Replacement with new high-e ciency  energy-saving pumps 
 New tool purchases of high e ciency, energy- saving auxiliary equipment 
 Optimized power consumption of equipment 
Energy Saved 5,000metric tons  
Energy Saved 41,000metric tons 
Energy Saved 48,000metric tons 
Fab: All 12-inch fabs  testing and  assembly plants 
Reduced CO2 
Reduced CO2 
Reduced CO2 
Resilience to climate disasters is an integral  
part of corporate operations in an increasingly  
extreme climate environment. Using 2  C-global  
warming and worst-case disaster scenarios,  
TSMC identifies key factors from climate change  
and extreme weather each year that could affect  
operations such as droughts, high temperatures,  
power shortages, floods, and wind damage, and  
establishes standard guidelines for all fabs to  
strengthen operational resilience. The Company  
successfully achieved its target of undisrupted  
production in 2019, and successfully protected  
against possible natural disasters and business  
losses brought on by climate change. 
By constructing fabs in compliance with  
international and domestic green building  
U.S. LEED Green  Architecture 
Taiwan Green  Architecture EEWH 
Green Factory 
Exceptional Smart  Building 
Strengthen Climate Resilience 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Number 1 in the global semiconductor industry  with the largest LEED-certi ed building area,  number 1 most LEED-certi ed company in Taiwan 1 
Largest EEWH-certi ed building area in Taiwan 
Most green factory certi cations in Taiwan 
Largest exceptional smart building-certi ed  building area in Taiwan 
certifications, TSMC can not only reduce the  
consumption of water, electricity, and other  
resources during the construction and operation  
processes but also increase the climate resilience  
of buildings. Meanwhile, ecological operation  
features were incorporated in architectural  
designs to promote the co-existence of industrial  
production and ecological sustainability.  
As of 2019, 32 fabs have received LEED gold  
international certifications and 23 fabs received  
EEWH certifications. TSMC is also leads the global  
semiconductor industry with the largest LEED- 
certified architectural area, and number one in  
Taiwan for largest green building-certified areas  
and certified green fabs. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
For more details, please refer to the article titled Bring Back the  Environment- TSMC Ecological Sustainability Park that Technology  and Ecology Co-exist on the TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility  website 
green buildings All 12-inch fabs are LEED certi ed 
green buildings All 12-inch fabs are EEWH certi ed 
green buildings Green Factory 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Climate Risk Adaptive Standards 
    12-inch wafers fabs are  US LEED certi ed 
    Contingency measures  for power restrictions and  backup emergency power  generators now able to  provide more than 15% of  full capacity power during  maximum electricity  restrictions 
Power  Shortage Flood Drought Wind  Damage 
    Foundations of newly- built fabs in Southern  Taiwan Science Park  raised by 2 meters,  lowering risks of  ooding 
    Inspect external public  facilities and major  suppliers for potential   ooding risks and  supervise them to  mitigate risks 
    Install  ood doors  for existing fabs and  buildings in areas with  high  ooding risk 
    Promote water saving within  the Company and increase  water recycling rate from  manufacturing processes 
    Support government- recommended recycled  water policies, commit  to developing and using  recycled water 
    Establish emergency water  shortage measures: maintain  water storage facilities in  each fab with 2 days water  usage capacity, prepare  water tankers and sources  of water that can provide  20% of water supplies during  maximum water restrictions 
2019 New Fabs in Compliance 
    Strengthen wind  resistance standards  for outdoor facilities  (water cooling towers,  decontamination  facilities, etc.)  
TSMC s active energy-saving and carbon- 
reducing performance has been registered on the  
Voluntary Greenhouse Gases Emissions Reduction  
Platform of the Bureau of Industrial Development.  
Through the government s yearly verification,  
TSMC has been recognized as an Outstanding  
Manufacturer for Voluntary Greenhouse Gases  
Emissions Reduction by the Bureau of Industrial  
Development. TSMC has comprehensively adopted  
the industrial best practice measures of reducing  
fluorinated greenhouse gases used in production.  
This approach was verified by a third party in 2019,  
Setting an Example to Lead Industry Learning 
Fab 15 was recognized as an Outstanding Manufacturer for Voluntary  Greenhouse Gases Emissions Reduction by the Bureau of Industrial  Development 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
TSMC passed the third party certi cation under the TM002 Method 
making TSMC the first semiconductor company in  
Taiwan to receive carbon credits under the TM002  
Method. In the future, the Company will fulfill its  
commitment to green manufacturing by using  
the carbon credits obtained from this reduction  
method to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from  
TSMC s manufacturing processes. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
For more details, please refer to the article titled Green E orts Pay  o  as TSMC Becomes Taiwan s First Semiconductor Company to  Receive Carbon Credits under the TM002 Method on the TSMC  Corporate Social Responsibility website 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Mark Liu, the Chairman of TSMC, is the Chairman of the Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA). Chairman Liu and other semiconductor, panel display,  and packaging testing manufacturers, jointly declare their commitment to energy conservation and carbon reduction at the High-Tech Energy Conservation and  Carbon Reduction Forum 
TSMC has spent years adjusting its operations  
to mitigate the impacts of climate change and  
is more than happy to share its environmental  
knowledge, experience, and optimization  
measures through public associations so that  
industry standards can be improved. These  
measures include six dimensions of eight energy- 
saving measures, such as the three energy- 
saving steps of intelligent chilled water system  
and energy-saving measures for uninterrupted  
power systems and wafer cleaning hot water  
recycling systems. In 2019, the TSMC-led Taiwan  
Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA)  
Energy Committee established an energy-saving  
task force. The task force regularly engages with  
members of 13 associations to share energy-saving  
experience and management practices, enabling  
an additional 200 GWh of electricity to be saved on  
top of the 300 GWh electricity saved by TSMC. Also  
in 2019, TSMC joined forces with flat panel display  
manufacturers and packaging testing industries  
to host the High-Tech Energy Conservation and  
Carbon Reduction Forum. Together, they promised  
to create a sustainable industry by achieving the  
following energy management goals by 2025:  
Adopt ISO50001 in 80% of manufacturing facilities  
and reduce GHG emissions by 85%. 
Case Study 
Taking the Lead in Joining Forces with Suppliers to Develop World-class Semiconductor Green Tools 
As the world s largest dedicated IC foundry company, TSMC is committed to creating a  
sustainable semiconductor supply chain. Because the power consumption of process equipment  
accounts for more than 50% of the company s energy use, and the number of advanced process  
equipment is increasing every year, TSMC has collaborated with equipment suppliers since 2016 to  
develop green tools for semiconductor manufacturing. Before these new tools were introduced,  
TSMC completed energy-saving design veri cation, installed energy-saving components, and  
expanded the energy-saving e ects of advanced process equipment. 
TSMC is the  rst semiconductor company in the world to ask its equipment suppliers to  
introduce energy-saving measures. Based on the assessments of the Energy and Carbon  
Reduction Committee, in 2018 2019 TSMC invited seven semiconductor manufacturers and  
suppliers around the world to host hundreds of discussion forums and extensively analyze the  
energy consumption parameters of all advanced fab tools, subsequently leading to the launch  
of the Energy Conservation Action Project for Next-Generation Fab Tools. From energy-saving  
ideas, planning, simulation testing to product veri cation, this process is continuously repeated,  
and energy-saving speci cations are incorporated into new fab tool procurement standards,  
demonstrating TSMC s commitment to saving energy. TSMC expects that energy savings will be  
achieved to 20% by 2030 to drive the positive cycle of the industry and supply chain. 
Thanks to the relentless e orts of more than 300 TSMC employees, 250 energy saving action  
plans were proposed in 2019, of which 110 plans were approved, veri ed, and applied to 54  
types of 5-nm advanced process tools. High-e ciency parts and energy saving designs have  
been incorporated into 11 types of energy-intensive components. TSMC expects that 200 GWh of  
electricity will be saved in 2020 due to the use of 5-nm energy-saving fab tools. In addition, the  
Company developed the  green tools certi cation system  in 2019, and completed the green  
certi cation of 27 types of fab tools for four equipment suppliers. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Milestones for Next-Generation Energy Saving Equipment 
Suppliers, Domain, and Scope of New Equipment  Energy Conservation Cooperation 
 Set goal to save 20% of  energy in new process  equipment 
 Work with  top 5 suppliers  of energy-intensive  equipment to initiate  energy saving equipment  design 
Top 7  Partnering  Suppliers 
2016 2017 2018 2019 
1 Initiate 3 Verify 2 Plan 4 Expand 5 Introduce 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
 Top 5 suppliers  propose energy  conservation plans  and engage in  regular discussion  and review with  TSMC 
Top 10  Equipment  Domains 
 Complete the  veri cation of 37  energy conservation  measures 
 Apply to 20 equipment  models to save 10% of  energy on average 
Scope of 11  Energy-Intensive  Components 
 Expand to include top 7 suppliers of energy- intensive equipment 
 Complete the verification of 110 energy  conservation measures 
 Apply to 45 equipment models to save 12% of  energy on average 
 Develop a "green tools certification system" 
Energy saving action plans  were veri ed 
Types of tools were applied 
Types of green tools were certi ed 
 Use energy  saving  equipment in  5-nm process 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Risk Management of Water Resources 
Enforce climate change mitigation policies, implement water conservation and water shortage adaptation measures 
Develop Diverse Water Sources 
Integrate internal and external company resources to develop regenerated water technology  implement water conservation and the use of regenerated water in the manufacturing process 
Develop Preventive Measures 
Improve the e ciency of water pollution prevention and removal of water pollutants  Note 2 
Water pollution composite indicator 30% above e uent standards  Note 3 Average concentration of tetramethylammonium hydroxide  (TMAH) in wastewater discharge was 7.86 ppm Average concentration of copper ions in wastewater  discharge was 0.09 ppm  Target: Tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH)   8 ppm  copper ion  
Reduce unit water consumption (liter 8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) by 30% (Base  year: 2010) Reduced water consumption per unit product by 5.2%   (Base year: 2010) Note 4 
Increase the replacement rate of regenerated water by more than 30%  Note 1 Saved an additional 3,280,000 metric tons of water through  newly-adopted water conservation measures Target: 1.14 million metric tons 
Water Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
(Cu 2 )   0.15 ppm 
Target: 27% 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Discharge less than 6 ppm of tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) Water pollution composite indicator reduction rate of 20% 
Reduce unit water consumption ( liter 8-inch equivalent wafer mask  layer) to 10% (Base year: 2010) 
Commence the TSMC Tainan Science Park Reclaimed Water Plant  tender project and start supplying water in 2021 
Note 1: Replacement rate of reclaimed water includes cumulative total of conserved water Note 2: The scope of water pollution projects and data includes Taiwan facilities and VIsEra Note 3: Water pollution composite indicator is an integration of TSMC s pollutants as compared to  the average reduction rate of e uent standards: Including chemical oxygen demand (COD),  villaumite, suspended solids, ammonia nitrogen, nitrate nitrogen, arsenic, boron, copper,  NMP, and cobalt Note 4: Due to test production in new fabs, water consumption per unit product did not meet  standards. TSMC continues to commit to the development of water reclamation  techniques. Its industrial water reclamation plant is expected to commence operation and  supply water by 2021 
Semiconductor processes have become complex  
as they advance from 2D structures to a 3D FinFET  
architecture, which in turn increases the types  
and quantity of the chemical materials used.  
Water is vital to cleaning wafers and maintaining  
a clean environment. TSMC has established  
various water recycling applications through  
water resource risk management, expansion of  
diverse water sources, and the development  
of pollution prevention techniques in order to  
maximize the efficiency water use throughout  
the water cycle in its facilities. In 2019, the  
Company took further steps to regulate the  
water management framework of its facilities to  
ensure the reasonable allocation of facility water  
resources in response to seasonal temperature  
TSMC uses a comprehensive water reporting system for  
continuous monitoring of water levels in water reservoirs,  
and installs hundreds of water consumption monitoring  
points combined with water balance diagrams around its  
facilities to calculate process water consumption, recycled  
water, wastewater, and domestic water consumption in  
facilities, as well as to track the direction and quantity  
of water  ow and water reclamation status. The data is  
used as the basis for calculating water recycling rates  
and water discharged rates, for estimating the volume of  
Comprehensive Information Network  and Meticulous Water Balance  Calculation  
Water Resource Risk  Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
water allocated to each water-consuming unit, and for  
establishing an e ective index for monitoring water use. 
Smart Management of Recycled Water 
The key to successful water resources allocation is  
detailed classi cation and comprehensive water  
reclamation mechanisms. TSMC categorizes wastewater  
from puri cation and processing equipment according  
to purity so that the cleanest water is given priority to  
be puri ed and recycled for use in the manufacturing  
process, and the second cleanest water is treated in  
TSMC Water Consumption Rate at Three Science Parks 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Southern Taiwan Science Park    
Reservoirs: Nanhua Reservoir,   Zengwen Reservoir 
Hsinchu Science Park 
Reservoirs: Baoshan Reservoir,   Second Baoshan Reservoir 
TSMC Water  Consumption 
TSMC Water  Consumption 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Daily Supply 
Daily Supply 
water recycling facilities then supplied for use by water- 
consuming units other than production equipment.  
Finally, unrecyclable wastewater is discharged to an  
onsite wastewater treatment plant, where various  
wastewater recycling and treatment systems are used  
to enable continuous water puri cation and reuse in  
processes, cooling towers, and pollution prevention  
systems for better water resource e ciency. 
In 2019, TSMC took progressive measures to build  
smart mechanisms for managing recycled water. Based  
on seasonal changes and peak water consumption  
Central Taiwan Science Park 
Reservoirs: Liyutan Reservoir,   Deji Reservoir 
Note: Public information from the website of the Water Resources Agency, Ministry of  Economic A airs  Reservoir capacity of Central Taiwan Science Park includes the  capacity of Taichung and Miaoli. 
predictions, TSMC re ned water reclamation techniques  
such as reverse osmosis membranes, resin columns,  
and UV lights to improve the quality of recycled water.  
Recycled water with improved quality can replace city  
water. For example, when the use of air-conditioning  
systems is reduced in winter, cooling towers require  
less water, causing an excess of recycled water. A smart  
recycled water management mechanism can dynamically  
allocate and supply recycled water, instead of city water,  
to other production units 
TSMC Water  Consumption 
Unit : ten thousand metric tons   day 
Daily Supply 
Main Water Cell and On-site Recycling System 
City water 
Water Reclamation Plants in  Yongkang and Anping, Tainan 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
AC  condensate  water 
Diverse water resource supply  outside of facilities 
Rainwater  recycling  system 
Water Supply Diversity Water E ciency Management 
Introduce in  2021 Introduce in  2021 
Reclaiming   AC condensate water 
AC  recycled  water 
Irrigation 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Cooling tower 
Domestic  water  consumption 
City water  replenishment  during peak periods 
Water Reclaim System 
Improvement and  Balance in Facilities 
Seasonal factors in uence  
evapotranspiration, causing  
imbalance in facility recycled water 
Ultrapure  water system 
Air  scrubbing in  cleanrooms 
Reclaiming air-scrubbing water  from cleanrooms 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Tool  production 
Exhaust  scrubber  system 
Liquid waste  
distribution 
Replace city water with  excess recycled water by  increased re ning in winter 
Onsite wastewater  recycling 
Reclaiming exhaust  scrubbing water 
Smart water pumping  model to regulate peak  water consumption 
Domestic  wastewater 
Wastewater  treatment  system 
Final  Discharge Waste Resource  Recycling 
Wastewater Resource Recycling 
Wastewater  treatment  plants 
TSMC Water  Reclamation Plant  in Southern Taiwan  Science Park 
Advanced oxidation  process system 
Improving Water E ciency and Strengthening Facility Water Reclamation Measures 
In 2019, TSMC has continuously increased the depth  
of its four water conservation measures: reduce  
water consumption by facility systems, increase  
wastewater recycling in facility systems, improve  
system water production rates, and decrease  
water discharge loss from the system. In addition  
Water Conservation Measures and Results in 2019 
discharged water from cooling towers  
Recycled 436,000 metric tons (13.31%) of  
kitchen cleaning water in o ce buildings  
Conserved 2,000 metric tons (0.06%) of  
Reduced cooling tower and sand  lter backwash  
water by 1,000 metric tons (0.04%)  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Decrease Water Discharge Loss   from the System 
Reduce Facility System Water  Consumption 
to continuously enhancing the effectiveness and  
expanding the scale of the eight existing water- 
saving measures, TSMC also introduced wastewater  
recycling machines and took comprehensive  
measures in five of its facilities to  purify recycled  
water into industrial water , effectively saving  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
3,280,000  Metric tons 
Annual Additional  Water Conserved 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
1,286,000 tons of water. The annual additional water  
conserved reached 3,280,000 metric tons in total. 
Many newly-built TSMC fabs (Fab 15 Phase 7 and  
Fabs 19 Phases 1 and 2) began operating in 2019.  
Due to increased demand for process cleanliness  
Increase Wastewater  Recycling of Machines  262,000  
metric tons (8.00%) 
water into industrial water  
produced from TMAH system 
Recycled 285,000 metric tons (8.67%) of hydro uoric acid wastewater  
Reclaimed 574,000 metric tons (17.48%) of water  
Puri ed 1,286,000 metric tons (39.24%) of recycled  
tons (17.45%) of recycled water 
Increased the water production rate of RO recycling systems by  132,000 metric tons (8.67%) 
Improved usage e ciency by allocating 302,000 metric  
Increase Wastewater Recycling   of Facilities 
Improve Water Production Rate   of the System 
and optimization of operating systems, unit  
water consumption was 59.3 (L 8-inch equivalent  
wafer mask layer) in 2019, a reduction of 5.2% as  
compared to the base year, which means the annual  
target was not achieved. 
Wastewater discharge is closely related to city  
water consumption and recycled water. Unit  
wastewater discharge in 2019 was 39.8 (L 8- 
inch equivalent wafer mask layer), an increase  
of 22.1% as compared to last year. TSMC actively  
conducts inventory of various water saving  
Annual Water Conservation 
Annual Cumulative Water Conserved 
Annual Additional Water Conserved  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: ten thousand metric tons Water Recycling and Usage E ciency 
Note 1: Total amount of water recycled includes numbers from  manufacturing process water treatment and recycling as well as  manufacturing process water recycling in scrubber towers Note 2: Total volume of water recycled and average recycling rate of water  for manufacturing processes are calculated with data from TSMC s  facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing) and  VisEra 
measures. By optimizing the water efficiency  
of advanced processes and introducing water  
reclamation techniques, the Company aims  
to improve the process water recycling rate,  
recycling volume, and use of reclaimed water  
and to reduce wastewater discharge. 
Average process water recycling rate (%) 
Total amount of water recycling (million metric tons) 
87.3 87.4 87.5 87.5 86.7 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
City Water Consumption and Water  Consumption per Wafer-Layer 
Note: City water consumption and unit water consumption intensity index  are calculated with data from TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech,  
Total city water consumption of Taiwan facilities (million ton) 
Total city water consumption of subsidiaries (million metric tons) 
44.6 47.7 47.2 47.1 
Water consumption per wafer-layer (Liter   8-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) 
TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing) and VisEra 
Saved an additional 3,280,000 metric tons  of water through newly-adopted water  conservation measures, surpassing annual  water saving targets by 187% 
Wastewater Discharge per Product Unit 
Note: Wastewater discharge and unit wastewater intensity index are  calculated with data from TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, WaferTech,  TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing) and VisEra 
Wastewater discharge of Taiwan facilities (million metric tons) 
Wastewater discharge of subsidiaries (million metric tons) 
Discharge per product unit (Liter   8-inch equivalent wafer  mask  layer) 
31.0 31.4 31.1 31.6 
Cu 2  and NH4-N concentration of  e uent water achieved 2025 goals six  years ahead of schedule 
As a leading global semiconductor company, TSMC  
began developing water reclamation techniques in  
2015 by coordinating with government departments  
to plan the construction of industrial recycled water  
facilities and use of recycled domestic water. In line  
with the reclaimed water pipeline configurations in  
science parks, bidding for TSMC s Tainan Science  
Park Reclaimed Water Plant was successfully  
launched in 2019. This operation represents a  
concrete action by TSMC to expand water resource  
diversity. 
Adopting Domestic   Industrial  Reclaimed Water to Reduce City Water  Consumption 
Develop Diverse Water Sources 
Please refer to TSMC Ful lls Green Manufacturing by Supporting  the Establishment of First Private-owned Reclaimed Water Plant  in Taiwan on the TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility website for  more details 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Note: Water supply schedule and water supply volume for 2021 and thereafter are calculated from reclaimed water consumption contracts between TSMC and government departments (Southern Taiwan Science Park Administration and  Tainan City Government) 
Timeline of Highlights for Regenerated Water 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Began the  development of  water reclamation  techniques 
 Biological treatment, advanced oxidation technology,  and Membrane  ltration module 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 
 Fab 14 (P5) established "Wastewater  E uent Recycling Pilot Plant 
 Reached production line standards  for regenerated water quality 
Technology and R D Procurement of Tenders and  Project Collaboration 
 40% reduction in  
the unit cost of  
water production 
 Open tender for  collaboration to build the  TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
 Collaborate with partner  rms for the establishment  of water reclamation plant 
 Participate in the promotion of reclaimed water in  Taiwan with the Construction and Planning Agency  of the Ministry of Interior, the Water Resources Agency  of the Ministry of Economic A airs, and the Water  Resources Bureau of the Tainan City Government 
 Collaborated with Southern  Taiwan Science Park  Management Department  to build the TSMC Tainan  Science Park Reclaimed  Water Plant 
 Commenced construction of  water reclamation plant in  Yongkang, Tainan 
 Construction contract  signed for TSMC Tainan  Science Park Reclaimed  Water Plant  
 Supply TSMC with 5000  tons day of water from the  water reclamation plant in  Yongkang, Tainan 
 Supply 5000 tons day of water  from the water reclamation  plant in TSMC Tainan Science  Park Reclaimed Water Plant 
 Increase water supply to 10,000 tons  day from the TSMC Tainan Science  Park Reclaimed Water Plant 
 Supply TSMC with 10,000 tons day  of water from the water reclamation  plant in Anping, Tainan 
Construct Water Reclamation Plant  and Supply Water 
 Construct domestic water reclamation plant and  supply water 
 Construct industrial water reclamation plant and  supply water 
 Increase water supply from  the TSMC Tainan Science Park  Reclaimed Water Plant to 20,000  tons day 
 Increase water supply for TSMC  from the water reclamation  plant in Yongkang, Tainan to  9500 tons day 
 Supply TSMC with 37,500 tons day  of water from the water reclamation  plant in Anping, Tainan 
 Supply 67,000 tons   day of water in  total from the TSMC Tainan Science  Park Reclaimed Water Plant 
A total of 38 distribution systems have been  
established based on the composition and  
concentration of wastewater from manufacturing  
processes. TSMC has built a comprehensive  
wastewater classification and resourcing  
system integrated with treatment equipment  
to effectively decompose pollutants. Following  
this, wastewater is condensed and reclaimed  
through the recycling system to further reduce  
Preventive Techniques on Key Pollutants of Wastewater Quality and Improvement Achievements 
E ective Source Distribution  Management and Treatment Facilities 
Note: Hsinchu Science Park (HSP), Central Taiwan Science Park (CTSP), Southern Taiwan Science Park (STSP) Note 2: Suspended solids reduction achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule in 2018 
TMAH 7.86 HSP: 30 CTSP: 20 STSP: 60 1.0 Reduced by 74% from the previous year 
Copper ion 0.09 HSP: 1 CTSP: 0.8 STSP: 1.5 0.1 Reduced by 76% from the previous year 
NH4-N 17.31 HSP: 30 CTSP: 20 STSP: 60 20 Reduced by 89% from the previous year 
Chemical oxygen  demand 
Item Status in  2019 Standards Set by Science  Park Administration Targets in  2025 2019 Improvement Outcome  (2014 as Baseline) Preventive Techniques 
Develop Preventive Measures 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
CTSP: 500 STSP: 450 100 Reduced by 54% from the previous year 
the concentration of pollutants in line with the  
dual goals of pollutant reduction and reuse.  
In 2019, TSMC installed a new distribution and  
treatment system for wastewater containing high  
concentrations of cobalt and cobalt-containing  
CMP wastewater. Additionally, a cobalt-containing  
wastewater electroplating system was established  
to recycle cobalt-containing wastewater for  
making cobalt bars. In 2019, 150 kg of cobalt bars  
were produced. 
Wastewater Quality Improvement 
All TSMC fabs have installed equipment to continuously  
monitor water quantity and quality at e uent spouts of  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule 
Achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
wastewater treatment facilities. By closely monitoring and  
recording changes in water quality and quantity, TSMC can  
respond appropriately when abnormalities occur. 
TSMC actively assesses manufacturing raw materials  
by referencing domestic and international studies  
on aquatic toxicity, placing focus on pollutants in the  
semiconductor industry, such as TMAH (strong base),  
copper ions (heavy metal) and ammonia nitrogen, as  
well as suspended solids and chemical oxygen demands  
that strongly impact marine life, setting these as  ve key  
targets to be improved in the  rst phase. The Company  
has carried out various improvement measures, and  
established the second-phase goal of reducing the water  
    Recycle low-concentration liquid waste 
    Establish anion exchange resin towers 
    Distribute copper-containing liquid waste and  electroplating 
    Expand ammonia treatment systems 
    Upgrade treatment facilities and improve treatment  e ciency 
    Implement combustion treatment in strippers  (Under assessment and planning) 
    Establish biological treatment systems (bioprocess)  (Under assessment and planning) 
pollution composite indicator of 10 substances by 30%  
by 2030, to demonstrate TSMC s determination to reduce  
the environmental impact of wastewater discharge. In  
2019, TSMC enhanced distribution of copper-containing  
liquid waste and chemical dosage improvement,  
e ectively reducing copper ions in discharged water by  
0.09 ppm, which is far below the 1 ppm drinking water  
standard. The Company has reached the 2025 target  
ahead of schedule. The e ciency of ammonia nitrogen  
wastewater treatment was improved, as indicated by  
the reduction of discharge concentration to 17.31 ppm,  
which is better than the e uent standards. 
Ammonia Analyzer  
Wastewater Classi cation and Recycling System 
Note 1: TMAH stands for tetramethylammonium hydroxide Note 2: Among all recycled products, sulfuric acid and electronic grade coating copper are reused in TSMC sites, while the rest are reused externally by other industries Note 3: Cobalt-containing electroplating wastewater recycling was introduced in 2019 
CMP Wastewate 
Hydro uoric (HF)  Acid Wastewater 
High-Concentration  Liquid Waste 
Acidic, Caustic,  and Organic  Wastewater 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
9 Recycling Systems 9 Products Recycled 38 Di erent Types of Liquid Classi ed 13 Types of Wastewater Treatment 
Processing  
equipment  
 HF acid wastewater (2 types) 
 Ozone-containing HF acid wastewater 
 Manufacturing process scrubbing water 
 Deionized water 
  Ozone-containing deionized water 
 Acidic wastewater (2 types) 
  Ozone-containing acidic wastewater 
 Caustic wastewater 
  Ozone-containing Caustic wastewater 
 TMAH wastewater 
 Organic wastewater (2 types) 
 Electroplating wastewater 
 CMP wastewater (2 types) 
 Copper-containing CMP wastewater 
 Cobalt-containing CMP wastewater 
 Waste sulfuric acid 
 Waste copper sulfate 
 Cobalt-containing liquid 
 Other wastewater (16 types) 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
  Ozone-containing acidic wastewater  recycling 
 Chemical coagulation recycling of CMP  wastewater 
 Copper-containing CMP wastewater  upcycling 
 Hydro uoric (HF) acid wastewater 
 Local scrubber wastewater recycling 
 Acidic wastewater recycling 
 Caustic wastewater recycling 
 Caustic wastewater upcycling 
 Organic wastewater recycling 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
 Biological treatment system for organic  wastewater 
 Copper-containing electroplating  wastewater recycling 
 Cobalt-containing electroplating  wastewater recycling  NEW 
 Chemical coagulation treatment of HF acid 
 HF (including ammonia) treatment 
 Biological treatment of HF acid wastewater 
 Acidic and Caustic wastewater treatment 
 NH4-N wastewater treatment and recycling 
 TMAH liquid waste recycling 
 CMP wastewater treatment 
 Copper-containing CMP wastewater treatment 
 Cobalt-containing CMP wastewater treatment 
 Waste-H2SO4 reclaim 
Discharge to on-site   
wastewater  
treatment plants 
 Calcium  uoride 
 Ammonium sulfate 
 Ammonia water 
 Sulfuric acid 
 Copper bar 
 Cobalt bar  NEW 
Rivers and the  
environment 
Reused by other  
industries 
Case Study 
First Semiconductor Company to Receive Platinum Certi cation from the  Alliance for Water Stewardship with the Highest Rating in History 
To mitigate climate change, implement green manufacturing, and continue to  
improve water e ciency, TSMC has introduced the world s only AWS Standard  
in 2019, using Fab 6 and Fab 14 Phases 5 6 7 as the initial demonstration site.  
In December of the same year, TSMC was o cially certi ed by AWS, becoming  
the world s  rst semiconductor company to receive AWS certi cation. TSMC s  
evaluation score of 114 points not only surpasses the Platinum-level threshold (80  
points) but it is also the highest score on record. 
TSMC is committed to managing its water resources in an e ort to ful ll the sixth  
UN Sustainable Development Goal Clean Water and Sanitation  and to be  
the  rst in the industry to comply with AWS standards. TSMC has established a  
comprehensive and systematic sustainable water management organization.  
The AWS team that came to inspect the entire catchment in the certi cation  
process has recognized and praised TSMC for implementing the industry-leading  
copper extraction from waste copper sulfate program, creating a high-tech green  
factory with  re y habitat restoration, planning the recycling and reuse of general  
wastewater in the site, and working with external units to create green energy  
smart water control gates that help improve e ciency in domestic irrigation. 
In 2019, the AWS Task Force summarized their experiences with a demonstration  
site in the AWS Blue Book. The Blue Book serves as a guideline for promoting Fab  
matching, and Fab 15 is expected to complete certi cation in 2020, in hopes that  
the company s operations can co-exist and prosper with the environment. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
   Provide the government with patented  green energy smart water control gate  technologies for free 
   Assessments show that 10% irrigation  water can be saved 
   Establish copper wastewater recycling  system that recycles and reuses copper  sulfate-converted copper tubes and  electronic-grade coating copper 
 Continuous and Excellent Record of No  Violations 
 Active Participation in the Promotion of  Governmental Policies 
 Green Energy Smart Water Control Gates  
 Copper Extraction System  
 Use of Reclaimed Water in Facilities  
   Industrial and domestic reclaimed water  is reused in manufacturing processes and  will be supplied starting in 2022 
 The First "Fire y Enterprise" in Taiwan  
   Build a world-class green factory and  become the  rst facility in Taiwan to  successfully restore  re y populations 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Operating Management Strategies 
Please refer to TSMC Receives Alliance for Water Stewardship  Platinum Certi cation  Achieves Record Point Total on the TSMC  
Corporate Social Responsibility website for more details 
Risk Management of Water Resources  Diversify Water Resources Develop Preventive Measures 
Green Innovation 
Laws    Regulations 
   Comprehensive and continuous  employee training mechanisms  
   Comprehensive processing procedures  (risk assessment, system setup,  operations, and emergency response  standard operating procedures) 
   Continuous monitoring and  improvement of the environmental  impact of sites on the water catchments  
   Conservation and rebuilding of  biodiversity in catchment environment 
   Well-structured information platform  
   Open and measurable water operations  standards 
   The quality of discharged water is higher  than the regulatory requirements, and is  continuously improving  
   Creation of a sustainable cycle system to  reduce the impact of operations on the  water catchments 
   Provide employees in the areas near sites  with safe and healthy environments and  drinking water  
   Implementation of the commitment on  drinking water and sanitation indicators  for sites and catchments 
 Excellent Management System  
 Healthy Water Environment  
 Sustainable Water Balance  
 Good Water Quality  
 Safe Drinking Water and Sanitation  Environment  
Case Study 
First Company to Recover Fire ies On-site 
Dedicated to ful lling our mission to strengthen environmental protection, we have adopted biodiversity  
conservation management and are the  rst business in Taiwan to successfully recover  re ies in our fab  
sites (For more detail, please go to  Successful Recovery of Fire ies in TSMC s Tainan Fab ). After four years of  
unremitting e orts, as of April, 2019, over 200  re ies have been spotted in our Tainan Fab. The  re y habitat  
experience is now being replicated in our Hsinchu and Taichung fabs. 
Establishment of the Best Habitat Building Process 
To ensure that the  re ies are breeding steadily, in 2019, we placed more focus on managing water quality  
and vegetation cover. We also monitored the quantity and growth of snail prey so that Aquatica  cta larvae,  
which feed on snails, are able to enter the pupal stage. Moreover, we have always maintained our  re y  
habitats with minimal interference. Apart from simulating their natural habitat, we took further measures  
such as installing shorter street lights and LED 590nm  re y lamps to reduce light pollution and habitat  
disturbance. 
A Larger Fire ies Habitat to Light up TSMC Fabs 
Seeking to set up an eco-friendly fab, we collaborated with ecologists to select potential locations for  re y  
habitats in September 2019. In the future, we will be recovering three species on three newly-selected sites  
according to the respective environment, and gradually build up a habitat for the  re ies. With each step we  
take, TSMC is becoming greener, and one step closer to reaching a balance between technology and ecology. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
For more information, please visit our CSR website  Bringing Back the Light-TSMC Fire y Habitat Restoration Initiative  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Fire y Pool in Fab14A Fire y Pool in Fab14A Habitat Investigation 
 Habitat site construction 
 Habitat restoration planning 
 Monitor the site's environmental ecology 
 Manage the ecological pool's water quality 
2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Planning Phase Habitat Building Phase Sustainable Management Phase 
 Improve vegetation cover management to prevent  invasion of exotic species, maintain multi-layer  vegetation, and control vegetation density 
 Build a habitat that suits the  re ies' life cycle 
 Maintain stable long-term water quality 
 Cultivate prey for larvae, build a pupation platform 
 Select additional locations for new  habitats 
 Eco-friendly habitat management 
 Focus on forming a  re y food chain  
 Regularly change  re y lamps 
1   4Sites Additional Habitats 
66   200Fire ies Population Increase 
Habitat Area 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Source Reduction 
Promote waste reduction by waste source separation and require suppliers to provide low chemical consumption equipment 
Circular Economy 
Collaborate with business partners to develop new waste recycling technology in order to increase the amount of waste recycled and reused 
Audit and Guidance 
Conduct joint evaluation and supervision based on standards of waste management  rms in the high-tech Industry 
Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer (kilogram 8-inch equivalent wafer  mask layer)   0.22 Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer (kilogram 8-inch equivalent  wafer mask layer) 0.40  Note 1 
Develop multiple types of electronics-grade chemicals for TSMC s resource  circulation Recycling rate of 96%. Percentage of waste sent to land lls   0.25% Target: Recycling rate   95%   Percentage of waste sent to land lls   1% In-house reuse rate of resources   23% 
All waste treatment vendors acquire ISO14001 or other international EHS  Management certi cations  Note 3 Waste treatment vendors are 100% audited and given guidance Target: 100% 75% of waste treatment vendors have acquired ISO14001 or  other international EHS Management certi cations 
Waste Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Target:   0.34 
Target:   30% 
Completed establishment of electronic-grade sulfuric acid recycling  pilot plant Target: NEW 
70% of waste treatment vendors have acquired ISO14001 or other  international EHS Management certi cations Target: 70% 
In-house reuse rate of resources 22% Note 2 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 1: Please see section on  Source Reduction  for reasons why target was not achieved. Note 2: Please see section on  Circular Economy  for reasons why target was not achieved. Note 3: TSMC requires waste treatment vendors to at least acquire ISO14001 or ISO45001  certi cations as the basis for standardized management. Vendors who are  exempted from online reporting or are government-owned enterprises are excluded  from the aforementioned vendors, including waste treatment and recycling vendors 
Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer (kilogram   8-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer)   0.39 
Source  Management 
TSMC s waste management strategies are primarily  
focused on source reduction. TSMC continuously  
minimizes resource consumption at the source,  
adjusts raw material usage parameters and  
technical solutions for process improvements, and  
collaborates with suppliers to achieve material  
optimization and minimization. After raw materials  
are used in production processes, on-site recycling  
is prioritized so that resources are sufficiently reused  
to delay the disposal of materials as waste. 
Life Cycle and Management of Sustainable Resources in TSMC 
Note: Data include Taiwan  Facilities. 
Product Sales 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
TSMC Output of Used Resources 
Production Process 
  Categorize and collect from the source 
  Tracking of output and fab waste reduction projects 
  Wastes preprocessed in-house as reused resources 
Raw Materials 
Reuse in the Fab 
Waste Resources 
TSMC has been implementing the concept of a  
circular economy to manage waste resources. First,  
waste resources are made into products by using  
facility resource renewal equipment. These products  
are provided for use in facilities or sold to other  
industries for use. For non-reusable resources that  
cannot be converted through resource renewal  
technology or reused, TSMC prioritizes recycling and  
recovery by sending them to certified waste disposal  
vendors. When all options have been exhausted,  
TSMC s final option is to dispose of waste by  
incineration and landfill. In 2019, the recycling rate  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Waste  Resource  Management 
 TSMC Satellite  Management  Tracking  System    Tracking of  GPS Anomalies 
On-site  Audits 
Incineration   Burial 
Recycled Energy 
  Safety management and facility availability 
  Inspection on input and output 
Outsourced Waste Treatment  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
was 96% and has been 95% or above for five years in  
a row. The percentage of waste sent to landfills has  
been less than 1% for ten years in a row. 
In addition to actively implementing the concept  
of a circular economy, TSMC has also established a  
 waste treatment vendor management procedure ,  
promoted the  waste treatment vendor sustainability  
enhancement project , audited and guided waste  
treatment vendors onsite, and provided vendors with  
relevant management experience in environmental  
protection, safety and health. Through a  
Reuse  Processes 
Recycled Products 
73  Transport  of Reused  Products 
Follow-up on  reused products 
comprehensive inspection of environmental, safety,  
and health systems, TSMC continues to improve the  
effectiveness of environmental treatment facilities,  
organize and setup indoor waste storage areas,  
and conduct emergency response drills to improve  
capabilities to respond to abnormalities. Meanwhile,  
vendors are guided to acquire ISO14001 or other  
international EHS Management certifications, and  
operation management is strengthened through  
process documentation and standardization. Waste  
treatment vendors are encouraged to keep pace  
with TSMC in co-creating a path to environmental  
sustainability. 
  30 Products 
Including Optoelectronic Semiconductor and Chemical Engineering 
Raw Materials for Other Industries 
  Monthly sales of reused products 
  Evaluation of the industry, clients, and usage 
  Inspection of invoices and shipping records 
Industries Reuse 
   4%   Incineration Landfill 
Recycled Waste  
Non-recyclable Waste 
96 % (485,437 Metric tons) 
4 % (22,872 Metric tons) 
 73%   Recycled Materials 
 19%   Reused in Fabs 
 3%     Converted to Products and Sold 
 1%     Recycled Energy (Auxiliary Fuel) 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Percentage of Recycled Waste 
Waste Quantity and Treatment Status Statistics 
Waste from Outsourced  Businesses Unit: metric tons year 
Reused Resources Unit: metric tons year 
Note 1: Data included TSMC s facilities in Taiwan (wafer fabs, testing and  assembly plants), and subsidiaries (WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra). 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
265,787  7,309 
291,984  6,777 
361,968  7,777 
377,767  16,017 
395,480  21,235 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 2: The amount of waste from outsourced businesses is determined by the sum of both general and hazardous Industrial Waste  Note 3: The de nition of waste from hazardous businesses is determined by local regulations Note 4: Data for hazardous Industrial Waste in 2015 and 2016 has been corrected and recalculated 
General Industrial Waste Unit: metric tons year 
Percentage of Recycled Waste Unit:   
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
132,427  5,097 
158,899  4,685 
196,077  5,037 
208,340  5,501 
212,465  7,119 
Hazardous Industrial Waste Unit: metric tons year 
Rate of Landfill Unit:   
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
Taiwan facilities Subsidiaries 
133,360  2,212 
133,085  2,092 
165,891  2,740 
169,427  10,516 
183,015  14,116 
Note 1: Outsourced waste per wafer increased because of  (1) Increased wafer production  (2) TSMC lists its ammonia nitrogen in wastewater as waste in order to comply with new wastewater regulation beginning in 2015 Note 2: Since 2015, TSMC has been promoting waste reduction and waste reuse. Projected amounts are based on 2014 as the base year before waste reductions Note 3: Data include Taiwan Facilities. 
TSMC continues to expand the production capacity of  
advanced manufacturing processes. Consequently, demand  
for raw materials has increased correspondingly, increasing  
waste generation. To e ectively inhibit waste generation and  
reduce environmental impact, TSMC established a  Waste  
Management Task Force , which integrates TSMC s Material  
Supply Chain Waste Resource Management Section, Facility  
Division, and Process Division. Within the committee, the Vice  
President of Operations designates inter-fab coordinators  
to set waste reduction plans with fab managers at the  
beginning of each year. Goals for 2019 include improving  
strategies for simplifying the manufacturing process,  
extending the life cycle of chemicals, recycling and reusing  
resources, exploring alternative chemical replacements,  
and introducing high-temperature production processes to  
reduce the use of chemicals and minimize material use and  
waste production from all aspects. 
Unit Waste Output Trendchart 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 
0.25 0.23 0.28 0.38 0.49 0.59 0.61 0.70 
Actual amount of waste per wafer Estimated amount of waste per wafer(future goal) 
Estimated amount of waste per wafer(if no proactive measures are taken) 
Source Reduction 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
0.34 0.35 0.36 0.35 0.34 
In addition, TSMC has built a real-time management system  
to track the amount of waste produced per unit in the  
production process. In addition to examining e ectiveness  
on a monthly basis and eliminating abnormalities, fab  
managers can monitor the output of waste in real time and  
compare outputs with other fabs to identify opportunities for  
waste reduction. In 2019, through 247 new source reduction  
and resource reuse plans, TSMC reduced the amount  
of waste per wafer by 274,348 tons over the whole year.  
However, new production processes are di cult to develop,  
initial operating systems have not yet been optimized,  
and the operating processes of in-house resource renewal  
equipment still need to be improved. Therefore, the reuse  
rate of resources was only 22%, and outsourced unit waste  
disposal per wafer was 0.4 kg in 2019, indicating a failure to  
achieve the original goals. In 2020, TSMC will continue to  
implement various reduction plans for newly-constructed  
facilities and further increase the reuse rate of resources to  
meet the goal of achieving 0.39 kg per wafer equivalent of  
outsourced waste disposal. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: kg   8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Case Study 
Minor Alterations Create Major Waste Reductions  in IPA 
TSMC capitalizes on its Waste Management  
Task Force and unit waste output management  
system to control its waste output and ful ll its  
commitment to source reduction. In 2019, TSMC  
identi ed a gradual increase in the output of  
IPA liquid waste from advanced manufacturing  
processes. An analysis of this liquid waste revealed  
a low concentration of IPA waste from advanced  
processes, and that the high water content was  
attributed to an increase in IPA waste output.  
Further inspection of 45 machines that produce  
IPA waste shows that IPA vapor easily adheres  
to pipeline walls, causing wafer surface defects.  
Advanced process wafer-cleaning machines were  
incorporated with a new design that uses deionized  
water to remove residual IPA, resulting in increased  
water content in IPA liquid waste and a dramatic  
increase in waste output. For this reason, TSMC  
immediately carried out an IPA waste reduction  
project and discussed improvement methods  
with equipment vendors. Water volume control  
valves were installed in wafer cleaning machines  
for advanced processes, and experimental designs  
were adopted to reduce water volume by 87%. This  
approach not only meets the quality requirements  
of advanced processes but also successfully  
reduced low-concentration IPA waste by 9,720  
metric tons per year. 
Washing and cleaning  machines 
IPA vapor easily adheres to pipeline walls,  causing small particles to form and causing  wafer surface defects 
Added a new design that uses ionized water  to remove residual IPA in pipelines, causing  increased volume of IPA liquid waste 
Installed water volume control switch,  achieving reduction of IPA liquid waste and  water quality maintenance 
IPA storage tank 
IPA liquid waste  collection tank 
Deionized water  inlet IPA inlet 
In addition to source reduction, TSMC is also taking  
actions to respond to the call for circular economy. To  
increase the feasibility of waste recycling, TSMC has  
reviewed the use of each chemical and classi ed the  
ultimate  ows of chemicals inside the facilities. 38 types  
of liquid waste were distributed using a comprehensive  
plan and remade into 30 types of recycled products for  
circular use in other industries. To strengthen product  
TSMC Aspires to be a Practitioner of Circular Economy 
Note: Statistics of economic value include Taiwan Facilities 
Circular Economy 
Cost saving from waste reduction 394,600 Thousand (NT ) 
309,000 Thousand (NT ) 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
With the development and  introduction of resource  renewal technology, TSMC  converts waste into various  products and reduces waste  production 
Waste  Waste Recycle    Disposal Vendors 
Regenerated products include  copper and ammonium sulfate 
 ow control and reduce the mishandling risks of  
outsourced vendors, TSMC has implemented the  Action  
Plans to Turn Waste into High-Value Products , which  
includes recycling waste sulfuric acid for internal use,  
electroplating copper-containing and cobalt-containing  
liquid waste into recycled products, and freeze-drying  
ammonium sulfate waste into recycled products. In  
2019, TSMC recycled more than 110,000 tons of waste  
and reclaimed 360 tons of products for sale, bringing in  
more than NT 300 million of economic value in recycled  
resources. 
Income from waste recycling 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Wafer  Product 
30 types of recycled  products include  industrial grade sulfuric  acid, industrial grade  solvent, etc. 
Used in Other  Industries 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Timeline for the  Waste to Valuce  Action Plan 
Reuse of facility resources is key to promoting the  
circular economy in TSMC. To improve the quality of  
ammonium sulfate treatment in line with the highest  
speci cation requirements in the industry, TSMC  
suspended its ammonium sulfate waste crystallization  
system in 2019 and engaged in a series of system  
modi cations and process optimizations, in hopes  
of identifying the optimal operating process with  
maximum e ciency. Consequently, the company s  
production capacity based on in-house resource  
reuse rates did not achieve the original goal for 2019.  
    Activated resource reuse  equipment 
Waste  Sulfuric acid 
  Activated  waste sulfuric  acid resource  reuse  equipment 
2015 2016 2017 2018 
Copper- containing  liquid waste 
    Amended Articles of Incorporation by  adding 4 categories of business items 
  Activated copper- containing liquid  waste resource reuse  equipment 
Ammonium  sulfate liquid  waste 
    Started selling self-produced recycled  products   cross-fab recycling 
Cobalt- containing  liquid waste 
  Initiated cross- fab recycling of  sulfuric acid 
  Started selling  copper tubes 
  Started recycling  and reusing  electronic-grade  copper anodes 
  Activated ammonium sulfate waste resource reuse equipment 
  Started selling industrial ammonium sulfate crystals 
Operation at full capacity will be restored in 2020, with  
the expectation of achieving a 23% in-house resource  
reuse rate. Furthermore, to purify waste sulfuric acid,  
which is outsourced for treatment, into raw materials  
for reuse in semiconductor manufacturing processes,  
TSMC has completed establishing the  rst electronic- 
grade sulfuric acid recycling pilot plant in 2019. TSMC  
is transforming from a waste producer to an advocate  
for the circular economy and lessening environmental  
impact by reusing materials. 
    Achieved zero waste or zero purchasing goals 
    Established the  rst electronic-grade  chemical recycling test line 
  Achieved zero purchase of industrial- grade sulfuric acid 
  Established the  rst electronic-grade  sulfuric acid recycling test line 
  Achieved zero copper-containing liquid waste 
  Activated cobalt-containing liquid waste  resource reuse equipment 
  Achieved zero cobalt-containing liquid waste 
    Start recycling and  reusing electronic- grade chemicals 
Case Study 
Successful Implementation of the Circular Economy  Three-Zero  Project 
With the expansion of production capacity, TSMC has expanded its circular economy actions to avoid the environmental  
burden caused by the corresponding increase in waste output. Concurrently, the Company has amended its Articles of  
Incorporation and introduced 4 additional business items, including chemical materials, to increase opportunities for recycling  
resources. TSMC s green manufacturing team in Facility Division constantly studies and evaluates the feasibility, operational  
safety, and economic bene ts of various resource renewal technologies. In 2019, the  three-zero  project was successfully  
implemented, subsequently achieving the  three-zero  goals: zero outsourcing treatment of cobalt-containing liquid waste,  
zero outsourcing treatment of copper-containing liquid waste, and zero purchase of industrial-grade sulfuric acid. 
Zero Copper-Containing Liquid Waste  Outsourced 
Since 2016, TSMC has actively developed copper-containing  
liquid waste electroplating recycling systems and continued  
to extract copper from waste copper sulfate to directly convert  
copper-containing liquid waste into recycled copper tubes  
onsite in the facilities. In 2017, TSMC subsequently cooperated  
with raw material suppliers to research and develop  
puri cation procedures that remake pure reclaimed copper  
tubes into electronics-grade copper anodes. As of 2018, the  
Company began extending this recycling process to TSMC s  
manufacturing processes and succeeded in establishing a  
reclamation model for electronic-grade copper materials. In  
2019, TSMC realized the goal of zero outsourcing treatment  
of copper-containing liquid waste in its mass-production  
facilities and recovered a total of 15,654 metric tons of copper- 
containing liquid waste, reclaiming 167 tons of recycled copper  
tubes and creating an annual bene t of over NT 100 million  
from recycling and waste reduction. 
15,000 Metric Tons of Copper-containing Liquid  Waste Recycled 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 100   Million (NT ) Annual bene t of recycling  and waste reduction 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Zero Cobalt-Containing Liquid Waste  Outsourced 
The development of semiconductor advanced manufacturing  
processes has resulted in the widespread use of cobalt as a  
conductive material. However, for this rare metal, there are  
no cobalt-containing liquid waste recovery technologies and  
treatment vendors in the market. Therefore, tapping into its  
successful experience with copper extraction systems, TSMC  
has installed in-house electroplating systems to completely  
recover cobalt-containing liquid waste and remake them  
into pure cobalt products. In addition to achieving zero  
outsourcing treatment of cobalt-containing liquid waste  
in its mass-productionfabs, TSMC has also produced pure  
cobalt products that can be reused in the battery and catalyst  
industries. In 2019, TSMC reduced a total of 277 tons of cobalt- 
containing liquid waste, which were originally treated by  
outsourced vendors, and generated roughly 180 kg of pure  
cobalt products, creating an annual bene t of over NT 10  
million from recycling and waste reduction. 
277Metric Tons of Cobalt-containing  Liquid Waste Recycled 
 10 Million (NT ) Annual bene t of recycling  and waste reduction 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Electroplating recycling  system Process  equipment 
Recycled copper tubes are smelted and puri ed  to be made into electronic-grade copper  anodes, and reused in TSMC processes 
Electronics-grade  copper anodes 
Liquid waste  collection tank 
TSMC Facilities 
Outsourced disposal of  copper cobalt-containing  liquid waste 
Raw material  supplier 
Raw materials for battery  catalyst industries 
Recycled cobalt tubes 
Recycled copper tubes 
(Continued on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
Outsourced  reuse of waste  sulfuric acid 
Traditional  Mode 
Zero Purchase of Industrial-Grade Sulfuric Acid 
Adhering to the principle of  Minimizing Waste and Maximizing  
Resources,  TSMC changed its traditional waste treatment  
approach in 2015 and successfully introduced a waste sulfuric  
acid recycling system that enables waste sulfuric acid from  
semiconductor manufacturing processes to be reused as additives  
for wastewater systems. In 2019, TSMC continued to hone its green  
innovation capability, e ectively improve the production capacity  
and quality of reclaimed sulfuric acid, and achieved cross-fab  
recycling of reclaimed sulfuric acid, exempting the company from  
purchasing 50% industrial sulfuric acid. In total, TSMC recycled  
96,081 metric tons of waste sulfuric acid, creating an annual bene t  
of over NT 200 million from recycling and waste reduction. 
Timeline of Sulfuric Acid Reuse in TSMC 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
96,000 Metric Tons of Industrial Sulfuric Acid  Recycled 
Introduced a  recycling system for  recycling and reusing  waste sulfuric acid 
In-house  Technological  Development 
Reclaimed sulfuric acid is listed  as a factory product for cross-fab  recycling, achieving zero purchase  of 50% industrial-grade sulfuric acid 
Reclamation Mode 
 200  Million (NT ) Annual bene t of recycling  and waste reduction 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Waste Sulfuric Acid Recycling System waste sulfuric acid produced from the semiconductor manufacturing process is entirely outsourced for  reuse. Meanwhile, industrial-grade sulfuric acid must be purchased for use as a wastewater additive. 
TSMC Fabs Traditional Mode 
TSMC Fabs Reclamation Mode 
Waste sulfuric acid  reused in facility 1 Waste sulfuric  acid reduction Stop purchasing 50% industrial sulfuric acid  to reduce consumption of natural resources 3 
Industrial sulfuric  acid 
Industrial sulfuric  acid 
Raw material  exploitation 
Raw material  exploitation 
Sulfuric acid  factory 
Sulfuric acid  factory 
Wastewater  treatment system 
Wastewater  treatment system 
Outsourced  reuse Waste sulfuric acid Semiconductor  manufacturing  process 
Outsourced  reuse Waste sulfuric acid Semiconductor  manufacturing  process 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Reclaimed  sulfuric acid 
Recycling  system 
Waste Sulfuric Acid Recycling System 
TSMC is committed to implementing its waste disposal  
vendor sustainability enhancement project in an e ort  
to verify the disposal of facility waste, strengthen the  
e ectiveness of vendor inspection, and take responsibility  
for the outsourced cleaning and management of its  
waste. TSMC has a thorough procedure for choosing and  
introducing new business partners. A documentary review  
that includes business scale, risk assessment, and related  
certi cations of its business partners is  rst conducted by  
a team of interdisciplinary experts from the company s  
Material Supply Chain Procurement and Waste Resource  
Management Section and Corporate Environmental Safety  
  Health Division. Next, TSMC conducts an onsite audit  
and carefully chooses outstanding vendors to work with.  
2019 Waste Treatment Vendors Audit and Guidance Outcomes  
   2 vendor  Solid waste  
 Acquired ISO14001 or other  international EHS management  certi cations 
   1 vendor  Liquid waste   
   1 vendor  Sludge waste  
 Recipient of environmental  protection awards from government  or credible media institutions 
   1 vendor  Sludge waste 
Audit and Guidance 
Operating Management Wastewater  Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Established improved waste  storage area inspection systems 
   3 vendor  Solvent waste  
   2 vendor  Solid waste  
   1 vendor  Sludge waste  
 Established indoor waste storage area 
   1 vendor  Liquid waste 
 Amended waste disposal contract to  comply with regulatory requirements 
   6 vendor  Liquid waste 
 Established waste disposal company  audit regulations 
   5 vendor  Liquid waste 
   1 vendor  Solid waste  
Waste Management 
Quali ed vendors must be subject to weekly and monthly  
documentary reviews and quarterly and annual onsite  
inspections. A standard audit system encompassing   
eight dimensions and 166 inspection items is established  
in accordance with the  Waste Treatment Vendors Audit  
Plan.  The audit form is revised on a yearly basis according  
to regulatory amendments to facilitate annual auditing and  
guidance counseling. In 2019, TSMC found that vendors  
were unaware of the need to stay up-to-date on laws and  
regulations. Subsequently, the risks of regulatory violations  
were rede ned, and management of 113 provisions was  
strengthened to reduce the risks of vendor violation. TSMC  
conducted onsite inspections and audits on 54 vendors in  
2019, completing improvements to 198 de ciencies. 
At the same time, TSMC s Material Supply Chain  
Procurement and Waste Resource Management Section,  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Established air pollution control  equipment standard checkpoint  procedures 
   3 vendor  Liquid waste 
 Improved onsite chemical GHS labeling  and compliance with SDS 
   4 vendor  Liquid waste  
   3 vendor  Solid waste  
   1 vendor  Sludge waste  
Air Pollution Prevention 
Safety   Health  Management 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Corporate Environmental Safety   Health Division,  
and Legal Division use the three dimensions of the  
Annual Evaluation for Waste Treatment Vendors as  
the basis for vendor replacement. The percentage of  
vendors evaluated as  excellent  and  good  in the  
2019 evaluation increased from 36% in 2015 to 74%.  
In addition, since 2016, TSMC has been pushing for  
vendors to gain ISO14001 certi cations from third- 
party organizations recognized by TSMC. In 2019, the  
number of ISO-certi ed vendors increased from 23 to  
38, accounting for 70% of all vendors. 
In addition to working with vendors to control the  
quality of waste management, TSMC also acts as  
the representative of the Taiwan Semiconductor  
Industry Association (TSIA) in collaborating with the  
Environmental Protection Administration, Industrial  
   4 vendor  Liquid waste 
 Established emergency response  procedures and regulations for  environmental system abnormalities 
   3 vendor  Liquid waste 
   1 vendor  Sludge waste 
 Improved onsite leak prevention  facilities 
Emergency Response 
Waste Treatment Vendors Audit 
Development Bureau, MOEA, and Ministry of Science and  
Technology to establish the  High-Tech Industry Waste  
Treatment Platform.  The objective of this cooperation  
between the government and corporations is to  
promote the circular economy, simplify waste reporting  
and reuse application procedures, and establish a  
more e cient and e ective management system for  
the  ow of waste and recycled resources. In 2019,  
TSMC cooperated with the Environmental Protection  
Administration through this platform to develop  
Taiwan s  rst highly e cient process for issuance of  
manifests for waste disposal and transportation. The  
original approach, which was time consuming because  
each item had to be entered manually, was optimized  
into a system batch upload mode. This new process not  
only increased data accuracy and convenience of waste  
reporting, but also created an excellent environment for  
waste management. 
Waste Cleanup and Disposal Vendor Management Process 
Safety     Health  Management 
Waste  Control 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Corporate Scale and  Reputation 
6 Main Aspects 
Vendor  Selection 
On-site  Facilities 
Workplace Safety, Environmental Protection, and Operation Assessment 
On-site Audit for: Logistic Records, Invoice, and Operation 
Follow-ups on Products, Waste Management, and Regulation Penalties 
Tracking of Waste and GPS Anomalies 
Violation  Assessments 
Documentary Review 
Onsite Audit 
 Environmental Safety    Health Department 
 Purchasing Department 
 Waste Management  Section 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Waste Production Con rmation 
Document and Operation  Con rmation 
Product Specs and Flow  Examination 
Input-output Balance in  Production 
Test Data Examination 
Safety     Health  Management Wastewater  Management 
Maintenance  Records Waste  Management 
Fire Safety  Management 
Emergency  Response Operating  Management 
8 Main Aspects 
Vendor  Inspection 
Air Pollution  Prevention 
Note: Total score 100:   90 Excellent    90 Good   80    80 Average   70    70 Passed   60   60 Disquali ed vendor 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Evaluation Results 
Excellent Good Average Passed Disquali ed vendor 
Percentage of  Passed  and  Average  Vendors Percentage of  Good  and  Excellent  Vendors 
2017 2018 2019 
 Industrial Safety and  Environmental Protection 
 Waste Management  Section 
Unit: vendor 
Operation  Record 
Waste Flow Control  and Compliance with  Management Requirements 
ISO-Certi ed Waste Treatment Vendors 
3 Main Aspects 
Annual   Evaluation 
No. of Certi ed Vendors Percentage 
Corporate  Scale and  Reputation 
 Environmental  Safety   Health  Department 
 Waste  Management  Section 
 Purchasing  Department 
 Legal  Department 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Use Best Available Technology 
Adapt best available technology to deal with pollution caused by operations and mitigate environmental impact 
Strengthen Monitoring of Prevention Facilities 
Leverage backup systems and dual-track management, along with pollutant monitors, to ensure that equipment functions as intended and prevent abnormal occurrences 
Reduce air pollutant emissions per unit of production by 45% (Base year: 2015) Note Reduced air pollutant emissions per unit of production by  30.3% Target: 27% 
Reported  1 case of abnormal occurrences to supervising authorities Reported 0 cases of abnormal occurrences to supervising  authorities Target:  1 
Reduction rate of volatile organic gases   98% Reduction rate of volatile organic gases was 97.8% Target:  90% Reduction rate of volatile organic gases   95% 
Air Pollution Control 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Reduce air pollutant emissions per unit of production by 32% 
Report  1 case of abnormal occurrences to supervising authorities 
Note: Air pollutant emissions data encompasses the total emissions of eight gases:  hydrocarbons, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, hydro uoric acid, phosphoric  acid, chlorine, and ammonia 
TSMC is committed to reducing air pollution. In addition  
to compliance with the  Air Pollution Control and  
Emissions Standards for the Semiconductor Industry   
and  Stationary Pollution Source Air Pollutant Emissions  
Standards  in Taiwan, TSMC s air pollution prevention  
practices include the adoption of best available  
technology, such as source categorization and multi- 
station treatment, as well as continuous collaboration  
with industry experts to improve the e ectiveness of  
terminal prevention facilities so that concentrations of  
emissions. Air Pollution Prevention Treatment Procedures 
Source of Pollutants Local Scrubbers Central Scrubbers Dual-track Emission Monitoring 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Chemical Storage Tank 
Wet Process 
Organic Process 
Dry Process Dual-stage  Wet Scrubber 
Adsorption 
pollutants emitted to the atmosphere can be equal to or  
less than governmental standards. With the concerted  
e orts of all facilities in 2019, TSMC reported 30.3% lower  
air pollutant emissions per unit of production compared  
to the base year of 2015, achieving the 2025 target of  
30% ahead of schedule. Subsequently, TSMC aims to  
set its 2030 reduction target to 45% as testament to our  
determination to reduce air pollution and continuously  
strive toward the goals of pollution reduction. 
Burn Wet Plasma Wet Thermal Wet 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Wet (Process Site) 
Condensation 
Wet (Facility Site) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Best available technology (BAT) controls air pollution at  
the source. TSMC divides its prevention strategy into two  
phases:  e ective reduction of emission from sources   
and  strengthened management of terminal prevention  
facilities . In the  rst phase of source classi cation,  
manufacturing process air pollutants are classi ed  
according to their properties, and newly-installed high- 
e ciency local scrubbers will treat speci c toxic gases,  
corrosive gases,  ammable gases, and per uorocarbon  
Use Best Available Technology 
Acid and  Alkaline Gases 
Organic  Gases 
Central  Scrubber  Connecting  High-E ciency  Washing Tower 
Dual Zeolite  Rotor and  Incineration 
greenhouse gases, while the remaining manufacturing  
process waste gases are also treated e ectively through  
special facilities such as thermal-wet scrubbers,  
combustion-wet scrubbers, and plasma-wet scrubbers.  
Then in the second phase, waste gases containing low  
concentrations of inorganic acids or bases will be sent  
to the central scrubber for second-stage water rinsing  
and neutralization treatment. With complete multi- 
phase processing through e ective classi cation and  
a two-phase treatment process, TSMC has signi cantly  
increased the treatment e ciency of air pollution  
Monitor Operating  Conditions 
Monitor Fluorine  Gas Online 
Monitor Reduction Rates of Emission 
Monitor IPA  Online 
Emission by Stack 
Emission by Stack 
Dual Zeolite Rotor Concentrators 
E ective Reduction of Emission from Sources Local Scrubbers 
TSMC continues to develop advanced manufacturing  
processes and expand its production capacity, and  
works to prevent the possibility of air pollution  
emissions derived from new chemicals. When new  
chemicals are used, the  New Tool and New Chemical  
Review Committee , made up of the Company s  
industrial safety, environmental protection, facilities,  
equipment, and waste treatment organizations, must  
review and evaluate the safety and environmental  
impact of the new chemical before deciding whether  
to approve its use. The treatment e ectiveness of local  
scrubbers is one of the key items to be reviewed. 
Based on the di erent properties of pollutants in high- 
concentration waste gases emitted from fab equipment,  
TSMC performs preliminary treatments through  
seven types of local scrubbers: thermal, combustion,  
plasma, wet type in facility site, wet type in process  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
TSMC introduced high-temperature thermal wet  
scrubbers that can operate at 1000  C or more. These  
scrubbers can reduce not only nitrous oxide by 90%  
or more but also  uorinated greenhouse gas (F-GHG)  
and ammonia NH3 by 99% or higher. Presently, for  
comprehensive use of high-temperature thermal-wet  
scrubbers to improve the results of pollutant source  
reduction, thereby reducing the load of the central  
scrubber to e ectively minimize the total emissions of  
air pollutants. 
dry fab equipment that use N2O, TSMC requires the  
site, adsorption, and condensation. For every special  
gas or chemical used in fab equipment, the e ciency  
of each special gas treatment is certi ed by third-party  
institutions to ensure that the reduction rate of the  
target pollutant is 95% or more. 
For e ective removal of nitrous oxide (N2O), in 2019  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Local Scrubber Categories 
Process Type Semiconductor Manufacturing Process 
    Wet Process 
  Dry Process 
    Organic  Process 
    Storage  Tank 
Chemical Storage Corrosive Gases Wet   (Facility Site) 
Ion Implantation  Sputtering Epitaxy Toxic Gases Adsorption  95% 
Epitaxial Dry Etching Corrosive Gases PFCs Burn-Wet  99% 
PR Stripping High Boiling Point Organics Condensation 
Wet Etching Corrosive Gases Organic Gases Wet   (Process Site) 
Dry Etching 
Thin Film Di usion Sputtering 
Corrosive Gases PFCs Combustible Gases 
Corrosive Gases PFCs Combustible Gases 
NEW   Nitrous Oxide  (N2O) 
Target Pollutants Technology Equipment  Pictures Reduction Rates 
High- Temperature  Thermal   Wet 
Thermal-Wet  95% 
Plasma-Wet  95% 
Speci c High Boiling Point Organics 
Real-time Monitoring Parameters 
 Natural Gas Flow 
 Oxygen Flow 
 Circulating Water 
 Inlet Pressure 
 Current  Amperage 
 Circulating Water 
 Inlet Pressure 
 Reactor  Temperature 
 Circulating Water 
 Inlet Pressure 
 Pressure  Di erence In  Scrubber 
 Inlet Pressure 
 Reactor  Temperature 
 Circulating Water  Flow 
 Inlet Pressure 
 Pressure  Di erence In  Scrubber 
 Circulating Water 
 Inlet Pressure 
 Pressure  Di erence In  Scrubber 
 Condensation  Temperature 
 Pressure  Di erence In  Scrubber 
 Circulating Water 
 Inlet Pressure 
After  rst-phase treatment, the processed waste gases  
containing low-concentration inorganic acids or bases  
are delivered to high-e ciency central scrubber for  
acid-base neutralization, while waste gases containing  
volatile organic components are delivered to zeolite  
rotor concentrators in terminal prevention facilities  
and exhaust to the atmosphere after condensation and  
combustion. In 2019, new plants (plants built after Fab  
15 Phase 7) have introduced an independent central  
scrubber connecting washing towers for wet process  
equipment, which emits a large amount of acidic and  
caustic gas. The washing tower uses clean recycled water  
sources to increase the absorption of acidic and caustic  
gases. Measurements show that the reduction rate of  
hydro uoric acid and nitric acid pollutants can be as  
Strengthen Management of Terminal Prevention Facilities High-E ciency Central Scrubbers 
Note: Data includes TSMC s facilities in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra. Data excludes WaferTech as there is no total  hydrocarbon monitor to provide any record of reduction rates. 
Annual Reduction Rate of Volatile  Organic Gases 
Average Reduction Rates of TSMC (including subsidiaries) 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: % Total Emission and Air Pollutants Emissions per Unit of Production 
high as 94%. Existing facilities are not only continuously  
installing local scrubbers but also treat acidic pollutants  
by installing hydro-membranes as needed, in order to  
improve the acid and alkali removal performance of the  
central scrubber. With the robust e orts of all facilities in  
Taiwan, the emission of acidic and caustic pollutants by  
facilities in Taiwan in 2019 was reduced by 9% overall,  
compared to 2018. TSMC will continue to improve the  
removal performance of its central scrubbers.  
TSMC not only adopts the most cutting edge and  
industry-suited pollution reduction technology but  
also continuously improves the treatment results of  
existing prevention facilities. Regarding volatile organic  
gas prevention technologies, TSMC uses high-e ciency  
Note 1: TSMC s air pollutant emissions were reported in accordance with local laws and regulations Note 2: Air pollutant emissions include the total emissions of eight gases: hydrocarbons (THC), sulfuric acid (H2SO4), hydrochloric acid (HCl), nitric acid (HNO3),  hydro uoric acid (HF), phosphoric acid (H3PO4), chlorine (Cl2), and ammonia (NH3) 
Total Hydrocarbon Ammonia Chlorine Gas Hydro uoric Acid Nitric Acid Hydrochloric Acid 
Sulfuric Acid Phosphoric Acid Emission of Air Pollutants Per Unit of Production (g   8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
0.30 0.29 0.28 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
zeolite rotor concentrators to  rst concentrate volatile  
organic gases, burns them in thermal oxidizer, then merge  
with the clean gases after adsorption, before  nally  
emitted into the atmosphere. After processing by the  
zeolite rotor concentrators, the reduction rate of organic  
waste gases can reach 95%, which exceeds the regulatory  
requirement of 90%. In 2019, parameter optimization of  
zeolite rotor concentrators was introduced, and zeolite  
rotor concentrators for facilities whose reduction rate was  
lower than 95% were replaced, thus e ectively improving  
the reduction rate to 97% or higher. Newly-built facilities  
(plants built after Fab 15 Phase 7) adopted dual zeolite  
rotor concentrators, which can achieve a 99.5% reduction  
rate of volatile organic gases. TSMC s average reduction  
rate of organic waste gas emissions has surpassed  
Unit: metric ton 
95% for  ve consecutive years since 2015. Due to the  
continuous increase in prevention e ciency, the total  
emission of volatile organic gases did not increase with  
new fabs coming into production. 
Through continuous improvements in acidic, caustic,  
and organic gases, TSMC s air pollution emission per unit  
of production in 2019 was 0.28 (grams 8-inch equivalent  
wafer mask layer), compared to the 0.4 in base year  
of 2015 (grams 8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer),  
representing a decrease of 30.3%, achieving the 2025  
goal of 30% ahead of schedule. 
High-E ciency Air Treatment Equipment (Local Scrubber) Dual Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
Feasibility 
Note: The size of circles represents the importance of the prevention technology. Higher emissions of pollutants have higher importance 
Continuous Improvement of Prevention Technology 
Graph of Prevention Technical Feasibility and Reduction E ectiveness Evaluation 
In order to improve the capabilities of air pollution  
prevention facilities, TSMC continuously strives to  
develop reduction technology, evaluates feasibility  
from factors such as fab space, technical safety, and  
economic interests, and considers the reduction  
e ectiveness of prevention technology to make multi-  
Water  Vortex  Machine 
Independent  Central Scrubbers  Connecting  Washing Towers  Wet Process Add  High E ciency Filter Equipment Center  Scrubber with  Bubble Cap  Column 
Wet Local  Scrubber of  Waste Water Tank Add Dosing  System 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Parameter  Optimization  of Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators  Central Scrubber  with Hydro- membrane 
Waste Water  Tank Add Wet  Local Scrubber 
E ectiveness of Reduction 
faceted, comprehensive assessments on whether  
to introduce such prevention technology. In 2019,  
three new technologies, namely, independent central  
scrubbers connecting washing towers, dual zeolite rotor  
concentrators, and parameter optimization of zeolite rotor  
concentrators, were incorporated in overall assessment. 
Central  Scrubber with Honeycomb  Packing  Material 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Clean-Gas- Desorbing  Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators 
Wet Etching Tool Add Wet Type Local  Scrubber 
Dual Zeolite Rotor  Concentrators  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC actively strengthens the capacity of its pollution  
prevention facilities and relevant monitoring and backup  
systems. The capacity of related prevention facilities in  
overseas subsidiaries complies with not only Taiwanese  
regulations, but also local regulatory standards. To  
guarantee stable and optimal operating conditions all day  
and year round, and to ensure that all colleagues gain  rst- 
hand information on the operating parameters of prevention  
facilities and are aware of the reduction rate and pollutant  
emission situations, all prevention facilities are equipped  
with N 1 backup systems and real-time monitoring systems  
in order to ensure that prevention facilities can immediately  
switch to backup systems if any abnormalities occur, and are  
protected by an uninterrupted power supply system to reach  
the management goal of zero facility failures. 
Facility Monitor Control Center Industrial Safety Emergency Response Center 
Strengthen Monitoring of  Prevention Facilities 
An air pollution prevention equipment operation status  
platform was established in 2019 to ensure immediate  
emergency response in the event of monitoring  
equipment failure. Furthermore, the Facilities Division  
and industrial Safety and Environmental Protection  
Department are able to submit online queries on the  
operation status and maintenance status of air pollution  
prevention facilities and keep apprised of whether  
relevant operation parameters match the facility s  
optimal values. Combined with the original abnormality  
reporting system, relevant monitoring results can be  
reported to the facility monitor control center and the  
industrial safety emergency response center. Thus,  
the dual-track independent monitoring system more  
comprehensively ensures that the gas emitted from  
stacks are in compliance with regulations. With the  
protection of an early warning system and real-time  
responses, no abnormal occurrences were reported to  
supervising authorities in 2019. 
Case Study 
Zeolite Rotor Concentrators Designed with Dual Rotors Achieve 99.5%  Annual Reduction Rate of Volatile Organic Gas Emissions 
TSMC utilizes zeolite rotor concentrators and thermal oxidizer to deal with the emission of volatile organic gases, and  
the removal rate can reach 95 97%, which exceeds than the 90% required by the  Air Pollution Control and Emissions  
Standards for the Semiconductor Industry . In particular, the volatile organic emissions make up the largest proportion  
of air pollutants. In an e ort to achieve environmental sustainability, TSMC continues to employ new technologies to  
improve the e ectiveness of central prevention facilities. 
The zeolite rotor designs for volatile organic gases emitted by TSMC facilities feature single rotors. To continuously  
improve the reduction rate of zeolite rotors and reduce the emission of VOCs, TSMC has introduced dual zeolite rotor  
concentrators to the new Fab 15 Phase 7 facility in 2019. The rotor substrate adopts a new zeolite with wet-impregnation  
method, which can reduce rotor pressure drop by roughly 10% and enhance adsorption performance. At the same time,  
due to lower thermal capacity, the concentration factor can be increased from 15 times to 20 times or more, e ectively  
The Evolution of Zeolite Rotor Concentrator Performance 
 Introduced clean- gas-desorbing  zeolite rotor  concentrators to  existing facilities  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
2017 2018 2019 2020 
 Promoted clean-gas- desorbing zeolite  rotor concentrators to  existing facilities 
 Introduced parameter  optimization of zeolite  rotor concentrators to  existing facilities 
 Introduced dual zeolite  rotor concentrators to  new facilities 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Introduced application of  AI parameters in zeolite  rotor concentrators to  existing facilities 
 Introduced  replacement program  for ine cient zeolite  rotors to existing  facilities 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Dual Zeolite Rotor Concentrators 
reducing energy consumed during operation. Dual rotors treat waste gas by transferring high-concentration process  
waste gas (60 120 ppm) from the  rst rotor adsorption process to the thermal oxidizer for combustion. Subsequently,  
the low-concentration waste gas (2 5 ppm), which was originally emitted, is concentrated in the second rotor and  
transferred back to the  rst rotor for repeated processing. Finally, the clean air (0.5 1.5 ppm) treated in the second rotor  
is emitted through the exhaust stacks. 
Following the dual adsorption treatment of the dual rotor, the reduction rate of volatile organic gases was increased  
signi cantly to 99.5%, demonstrating an e ective reduction of volatile organic gas emissions. In 2019, TSMC successfully  
adopted clean-gas-desorbing zeolite rotor concentrators in its existing facilities, and simultaneously introduced  
parameter optimization of zeolite rotor concentrators to ensure that the total emission of volatile organic gases in 2019  
was una ected by facility expansion, actively working to realize the corporate mission of green manufacturing. 
High-concentration  process waste gas 
(60-120 ppm) 
Second  Desorption Fan 
Desorption Cooling 
First Zeolite Rotor 
Adsorption 
Low-concentration  process waste gas 
Waste gas following second  rotor concentration is  transferred to first rotor for  repeated processing Desorption Cooling 
First  Desorption Fan 
Second Zeolite Rotor 
Adsorption 
Clean   Fresh Air 
(0.5-1.5 ppm) 
Exhaust   Fan 
Inclusive Workplace 
An Attractive Employer 
Employees are the most important asset of TSMC. We deeply instill a people-oriented culture and  value the mutual commitment between the Company and our employees, building a friendly  workplace exceeding domestic and international standards in safety, health, regulations, and  human rights. TSMC aims to build a challenging work environment where learning never stops,  and pursues the goal of becoming an employer that all employees can be truly proud of. 
  109.9 Billion (NT ) 
Total compensation expenses for all  employees  exceeded NT 109.9 billion  
5,087 People 
Recruited 5,087 new employees globally and o ered high quality jobs 
Strengthened OHS control measures, with no reported cases of occupational  diseases caused by chemical or physical exposure 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Bolster Employee Commitment 
Promote and ful ll TSMC s core values Provide competitive compensation packages Maintain a healthy turnover rate 
Strengthen Industry-academia Collaboration Through TSMC Campus Programs 
Turnover for newly recruited employees within one year shall not exceed 10% Turnover for newly recruited employees within one year of service stood at 13.4% Target: less than 15% Optimize training programs for new employees and  facilitate their integration into TSMC s corporate culture.  Turnover for newly recruited employees within one year of  service shall not exceed 13.5% 
Continue to maintain a position in the 75 th percentile among its industry peers in  total compensation  According to the compensation survey report, the total compensation  of employees in TSMC facilities in Taiwan is above the 90 th percentile  comparing with its industrial peer groups, whereas the total compensation  of employees in Overseas Organization is above the 75 th percentile Target: above the 75 th percentile 
Total turnover shall be maintained at 5% to 10% Total turnover stood at 4.9% Target: 5%-10% Total turnover shall be maintained at 5% to 10% 
Conduct an Employee Core Values Survey every two years to advocate core values 
    Over 95% of employees are fully committed to their work 
    Over 95% of employees are willing to continue to work for TSMC in the next  ve  years 
Develop a series of campus programs to incubate over 5,000 undergraduate  and graduate students worldwide, including comprehensive semiconductor  programs on device integration, process module, and equipment engineering,  internship, and contests 
Talent Attraction and Retention  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Commitment to TSMC s core values is listed as one of TSMC s recruitment  criteria. This requirement has been expanded to two TSMC fabs in China  and applied to all job candidates  Target: 100% 
In collaboration with National Tsing-Hua University, TSMC launched a  semiconductor program and has attracted more than 200 students to enroll Target: NEW 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Conduct an Employee Core Values Survey to advocate  core values 
    Over 95% of employees are fully committed to their work 
    Over 95% of employees are willing to continue to work for  TSMC in the next  ve years 
Maintain total compensation above the 75 th percentile  among high-tech  industry peers 
Develop a series of campus programs to incubate over  2,000 undergraduate and graduate students worldwide,  including comprehensive semiconductor programs on  device integration, process module, and equipment  engineering, internship, and contests 
In 2019, TSMC formulated its 2030 Goal for Inclusive  
Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention. In the  
next decade, TSMC aims to maintain its status as one  
of the best employers and, through partnerships  
with academic institutions, cultivate new talents not  
only for its own growth but also for that of Taiwan s  
semiconductor industry. To these ends, TSMC will  
continue to enhance employees  commitment to the  
company s core values and engage with emerging  
talents through partnerships, such as the TSMC  
Education Program, with academic institutions. 
 Putting right people with shared visions and values in  
the right positions  has always been TSMC s guideline  
for recruiting talents, designing compensation packages,  
managing employees  performance, and developing  
training programs. All employees at TSMC are treated  
equally regardless of gender, religion, race, nationality or  
political a liation. With shared vision, we work toward  
a common goal under a common commitment. With  
shared values, we abide by a common set of values and  
a uni ed code of conduct. By putting the right person  
into the right position, TSMC enables its employees to  
contribute to the company where they are most needed  
and allows employees to develop with the company.  
To hire people with shared visions and values, TSMC  
prioritizes character and capability over professional  
Recruitment Criteria 
Shared Visions and Values 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
skills when assessing candidates. Due to the Company s  
expansion and business needs, TSMC also considers  
mobility as an important criterion. To this end,  
TSMC has developed a number of selection criteria,  
including integrity, resilience, initiative, and innovation.  
Candidates shall be evaluated by selection criteria  
assessment and interviews. 
Responding to technological changes and the rise  
of a new generation of talent, TSMC recognizes that  
only through proactive measures in talent incubation,  
recruitment, and retention, can the Company tap  
into employees  capabilities in R D, manufacturing,  
and service, thereby sustain TSMC s long-term  
competitive advantages in face of global competition  
and challenges. Furthermore, aiming to develop high  
quality talent for Taiwan s semiconductor industry and  
enhance industry attraction, TSMC has cooperated  
with prestigious universities in Taiwan to design  
comprehensive semiconductor education program  
focusing on device integration, process module, and  
semiconductor equipment. Co-developed by TSMC  
and the university, the program combines theoretical  
lectures and practical training. In 2019,  TSMC-NTHU   
Semiconductor Program was launched in partnership  
with National Tsing Hua University. In 2020, TSMC will  
continue to work with other universities, and has set up  
a goal to have over 5,000 undergraduate or graduate  
students worldwide to participate in TSMC s industry- 
academia programs.  
Note: For more information on TSMC s partnership with universities,  please refer to the  Innovation Management  section of this report. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Workforce Structure  
In 2019, there were a total of 51,297 employees at  
TSMC, including 34,137 managers, professionals  
and administration sta , and the remaining 17,160  
were technicians on the production lines. As the  
semiconductor industry is both knowledge and  
technology-intensive, over 80% of our managers and  
professionals hold a Master s degree or higher.  
Diversity and Inclusion at TSMC 
TSMC believes strongly in the value of a diverse workforce.  
Developing future semiconductor talents in an inclusive  
fashion allows the industry to unlock the full potential  
of the human resources available to the world. TSMC  
hires and promotes without regard to gender, religion,  
race, nationality, or political a liation because we  
respect di erences, and believe that equal employment  
opportunity strengthens our competitiveness. 
In addition, TSMC believes the workforce should re ect  
society. Diversity among our management and employees  
gives us an advantage by enabling the Company to better  
understand all segments of society and the marketplace,  
and better address their needs and demands. 
Around 90% of TSMC s employees are based in principal  
place of business, Taiwan, with the remaining 10% in  
subsidiaries in China, North America, Europe, Japan,  
South Korea, and other countries. 
Global Workforce Structure Female Workers 
Note: Global Workforce Structure only includes regular employees and temporary employees expected to become regular employees. In addition to the  two groups mentioned, TSMC employs 241 contract employees, who are not included in the  gures listed in the Global Workforce Structure. Contract  employees include employees with disabilities (221 individuals) and employees for special projects or short term support (20 individuals) 
Employment  Type 
Total 51,297 
Categories Groups Male Female Subtotal and Percentage  by Groups 
Professionals 19,950 81.7 4,466 18.3 24,416 47.6 
21 - 30 8,097 65.8 4,207 34.2 12,304 24.0 
Contractor 4 50.0 4 50.0 8 0.0 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Managers 4,684 87.3 680 12.7 5,364 10.5 
Taiwan 28,708 62.4 17,313 37.6 46,021 89.7 
18 - 20 19 54.3 16 45.7 35 0.1 
Ph.D 2,114 90.7 217 9.3 2,331 4.5 
Regular 31,908 62.2 19,381 37.8 51,289 100.0 
Assistant  Engineers   Clerical 3,556 81.6 801 18.4 4,357 8.5 
Technicians 3,722 21.7 13,438 78.3 17,160 33.5 
Asia 2,127 57.3 1,586 42.7 3,713 7.2 
North America 1,046 69.1 467 30.9 1,513 2.9 
Europe 31 62.0 19 38.0 50 0.1 
Master s 18,615 81.1 4,333 18.9 22,948 44.7 
31 - 40 15,541 63.3 9,003 36.7 24,544 47.8 
Bachelor s 8,062 62.0 4,935 38.0 12,997 25.3 
41 - 50 6,586 55.7 5,235 44.3 11,821 23.0 
60  146 72.6 55 27.4 201 0.4 
Other Higher  Education 1,611 29.5 3,842 70.5 5,453 10.6 
High School 1,510 20.0 6,058 80.0 7,568 14.8 
51 - 60 1,523 63.7 869 36.3 2,392  4.7 
Number Group  Percentage Number Group  Percentage Number Group  Percentage 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
All employees at TSMC are treated equally regardless  
of their gender, religion, race, nationality, or  
political a liation. Due to the characteristics of  
the semiconductor industry and Taiwan s cultural  
environment, over 60% of our employees are male.  
Going into more speci c details, over 80% of our  
managers, professionals, and assistants are male,  
and over 80% of technicians on the production lines  
are female. As TSMC s fabs become increasingly  
automated, there is a declining need for production  
line operators, a group consisting mainly of female  
employees, which is leading to a gradual drop in the  
total percentage of female employees at TSMC. 
Despite the decline in the percentage of female  
employees in recent years, TSMC s female employees  
enjoy a similar promotion ratio with their male  
counterparts, at 0.97:1, an achievement facilitated by  
TSMC s proactive e orts in recruitment and retention.  
Female section managers or above are generally  
promoted more than their male counterparts at a  
ratio of 1.14:1. In addition, at TSMC, male and female  
employees enjoy the same compensation system,  
which does not discriminate based on gender. 
In 2020, TSMC will continue to support its female  
employees by adopting all possible measures to retain  
as many female employees as possible, and provide  
them with the opportunity to live up to their full  
potential and to make valuable contributions to TSMC  
and society. 
Note 1: Junior management positions include  rst-line managers  top  management positions include Vice Presidents and higher,  excluding Chairman, board of directors, and CEO Note 2: The  gures were modi ed because junior-level and senior  managers joined VisEra Note 3: In 2019, three senior managers (from the management team)  retired (B.J. Woo, N.S. Tsai, and Irene Sun), two of whom are female,  hence the drastic drop in the percentage of females 
Female Workers in TSMC 
Females in Management Positions  
Females in Junior Management Positions  
Females in Top Management Positions   (the Management Team)  
Female Share of Total Workforce  
13.7 12.8 13.6 12.8 13.6 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 
37.8 40.1 39.3 
TSMC Compensation Ratio by Gender 
North America,  Europe, Japan,  and South  Korea 
Region  Subsidiary Position Male Female 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Assistant Engineers  Clerical  1 0.97 
Assistant Engineers  Clerical  1 0.88 
Assistant Engineers  Clerical  1 1.03 
Assistant Engineers  Clerical  1 0.91 
Professionals 1 0.93 
Professionals 1 0.89 
Professionals 1 0.79 
Professionals 1 0.86 
Professionals 1 0.91 
Technicians 1 1.13 
Technicians 1 1.05 
Technicians 1 1.13 
Technicians 1 0.99 
Managers 1 0.95 
Managers 1 0.94 
Managers 1 0.95 
Managers 1 0.72 
Managers 1 0.84 
New Employees 
Talent Recruitment 
Around 90% of employees at TSMC are based in Taiwan,  
while overseas employees are mostly based in Asia,  
accounting for 7.2% of total employees. Recruitments at  
global branches mainly focus on hiring local residents. Due  
to demand for research and development talent and a  
diversi ed talent pool, Taiwan has been targeting both new  
graduates and overseas professional. TSMC believes that  
recruiting professional talent from around the world will  
help enhance the Company s growth in the long-term. 
Campus Recruitment 
TSMC s core values, corporate culture, and world leading  
business performance are highly recognized by residents  
in Taiwan, so TSMC has been voted as the best employer  
for domestic new graduates. The Company vigorously  
Global TSMC Taiwan Facilities and VisEra 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 
3,686 3,663 
3,263 2,785 
Unit: people 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Interns Receiving Advance O ers or Hired 
Note: Data included TSMC Taiwan Facilities  and VisEra 140 
recruits talent with shared vision and values via our  
o cial website, campus recruitment, intern programs,  
JDP (Joint Development Program), RDSS (Research  
Development Substitute Services), social media, and  
more. In 2019, TSMC recruited 5,087 new employees, and  
76.1% of them are younger generation under 30 years  
Internship Program is a major annual program in Taiwan,  
and TSMC North America, TSMC (China), and TSMC  
(Nanjing) also o er internship opportunities in recent  
years. In addition to recruiting intern candidates through  
referrals by professors, campus department o ces, and  
employees, as well as promotions through social media  
and face-to-face campus recruitment fairs. Through  
internship program, the Company is able to early engage  
Total Interns Interns Receiving Advance  O ers 
Female Interns 
Female Interns Receiving  Advance O ers 
students in semiconductor research and manufacturing,  
and inspire young talent to join the semiconductor  
 In 2019, a total of 240 interns were recruited in Taiwan.  
Among them, 69 interns were female, accounting for 29%  
of all interns. After the internship, 92 interns received  
advance o ers after evaluation, accounting for 38%  
of total participants. Among them, 23% were female.  
The percentage of female students participating in the  
internship program, receiving advance o ers, or joining  
TSMC are higher than the current percentage of female  
professionals at TSMC (18.3%). This shows that TSMC is  
committed to achieving gender equality in the workplace.  
In 2019, a total of 75 interns were recruited by TSMC s  
overseas subsidiaries and 9 of them were female. 
Interns Who Have Joined or Are  About to Join TSMC 
Female Interns Who Have Joined  or Are About to Join TSMC 
To be  added  
Unit: people 
Through TSMC s internship program, students are  
able to familiarize themselves with the industry  
in advance. When they go back to campus,  
they could register for semiconductor-related  
courses, and are likely to better adapt to the  
industry in the future. As of 2019, an average  
of 40% of the interns from 2017 and 2018 have  
joined TSMC either through advance offers or  
regular recruitment, indicating that internship  
recruitment program is effective in attracting  
talent for TSMC at an early stage. 
Oversea Hires - Taiwan Facilities 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: people 
Oversea Hires - VisEra 
Overseas Talent Recruitment  
To sustain the Company s diversi ed talent pool and  
recruit talent in special  elds, TSMC has continuously  
make an e ort to recruit overseas talent. Over the years,  
we have conducted joint development programs with  
prestigious universities such as MIT, Stanford University,  
and the University of California, Berkeley to incubate  
top research talent and have early engagement with  
students for future recruitment. In addition, TSMC recruits  
experienced semiconductor talent. The Company visits  
technological hubs in the U.S., and also searches for  
talent in India, Canada, and Europe. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 
Unit: people 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Case Study 
2019 Large-scale Hiring Plan Attracts a Considerable  Amount of Talent to Seize TSMC s Quality Job O ers 
In July of 2019, TSMC fabs in Taiwan began mass recruitment for new positions in response to business growth,  
technology development, and advanced fab expansion. By the end of the year, approximately 3,500 people were  
recruited, including fresh graduates and experienced professionals. In comparison with recent years, 3,500 new  
hires is almost equivalent to the number of people recruited throughout the entire year. To achieve its recruitment  
goal, TSMC not only held interviews and recruitment events on weekdays but also organized six large scale job fairs  
on weekends in its Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan sites, allowing experienced job seekers to attend interviews at  
convenient time and locations. Furthermore, special bonus was provided as incentives to encourage newcomers  
to come onboard as early as possible.  
TSMC considers its employees as its most important assets. As it is known that TSMC not only provides challenging  
job and diversi ed career path, but also o ers employees highly competitive compensation packages and  
bene ts, the Company is able to attract talent with shared value in a timely manner. 
During large-scale recruitment period, TSMC  rmly adhered to its principle of  Putting right people with shared  
visions and values in right position,  and assess candidates by selection criteria and interview. At the same time,  
TSMC provides orientation, training programs, buddy program and more to help newcomers to adapt to work  
environment and role faster. These practices encourage employees to stay with TSMC to push the envelope of  
technology together. 
From the questions asked by HR and hiring managers, I felt respect. They  started by asking questions related to my character, past experience,  my mindset, and how I deal with things, instead of throwing me difficult  questions that made me feel incompetent. 
A candidate at the weekend recruitment event in Hsinchu on September 1, 2019 
Disabled Workers Hired in Taiwan  
According to Article 38 of the People with Disabilities  
Rights Protection Act in Taiwan, the number of disabled  
people with the capability to work shall be no less  
than 1% of a company s total employees, and when a  
company employs a person with severe disabilities, that  
person shall be calculated as two. In addition, companies  
that do not employ a su cient amount of people with  
disabilities shall periodically pay subsidies based on the  
de cient amount to the Disabled Employment Funds.  
The amount of the subsidies is based on the de cient  
amount of employed disabled workers multiplied by  
monthly basic wage. 
Disabled Workers - Taiwan Facilities 
Disabled Workers Hired 
1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Weighted Ratio 
Unit: numbers Disabled Workers - VisEra 
In line with the government s policies and regulations,  
TSMC endeavored to provide job opportunities  
to those with disabilities. In 2019, the Company  
continuously keep its partnership program with  
numerous universities in Taiwan to provide high  
quality working opportunities for disabled university  
students or graduates. Aside from regular openings,  
TSMC also developed suitable job positions such as  
 Campus Recruitment Representatives  for university  
and graduate students with disabilities. 
Disabled Workers Hired 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Weighted Ratio  
Unit: numbers New Employee Ratio 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In 2019, TSMC s fabs in Taiwan employed a total of 315  
new employees with mild or moderate disabilities, and 79  
with severe disabilities, with the weighted ratio reaching  
1% of total employees. In 2019, VisEra also employed  
three disabled individuals as full-time regular employees.  
However, due to the nature of available job vacancies,  
VisEra received a dearth of suitable applicants, leading  
to its failure to meet the 1% requirement, and has paid  
subsidies according to legal requirements. VisEra will  
continue to open vacancies for people with disabilities  
and attract more suitable candidates to apply. 
Hired Employees 
Newcomer Ratio 
Unit: numbers Vacancies Filled by Employees 
Note 1: The  gures for 2015 - 2017 cover TSMC s Taiwan facilities, while  those for 2018 - 2019 cover both TSMC s Taiwan facilities and its  subsidiaries Note 2: Due to a large number of new vacancies and external recruitment  expansion projects, the percentage of vacancies  lled through  internal transfers was signi cantly lower in 2019 than it was in 2018 
To help employees plan on their career paths, TSMC is  
dedicated to enhancing the transparency of internal job  
opportunities, thereby encouraging internal transfers,  
allowing the right people to gravitate toward the right  
positions, and reducing the turnover rate. In 2019,  
TSMC achieved 100% internal transfer completion rate,  
and over 50% of vacancies were  lled through internal  
transfers. Both  gures have reached the annual target. 
Ful ll Internal Transfer Policy 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 
Employee Turnover 
To ensure talent mobility and long-term growth,  
TSMC firmly believes that a healthy employee  
turnover rate should be between 5% to 10%, which  
has thus become the company s long-term goal.  
In 2019, TSMC s employee turnover rate was 4.9%,  
slightly lower than what TSMC believes to be a  
healthy turnover rate. Fortunately, as the company  
continues to grow, it is joined by new employees,  
who play important roles in diversifying and  
invigorating the company. 
Turnover Rate 
Voluntary Turnover Rate Turnover Rate 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: % Compensation and Benefits  Expenses 
TSMC provides competitive compensation  
packages to attract and retain the best talent, and  
to reward employees  performance and encourage  
their long-term contribution, which include base  
salary,allowance, employees  cash bonus and  
profit sharing. The total compensation of an  
employee is determined basing on individual  
expertise, job responsibility, performance,  
commitment to long-term contribution, and the  
Company s operational achievement. 
Competitive Compensation Packages 
Compensation and Bene ts of Global Employees  
Average Compensation and Bene ts of Global Employees  
Compensation and Bene ts 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: NT  million 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Salary Raise 
 In order to maintain the competitiveness of our compensation, TSMC appropriately adjusts  employees' salaries annually, taking into consideration of the results of global salary  surveys, market salary scales, and economic indices. 
 In April 2019, TSMC conducted salary raises for employees in Taiwan and overseas  subsidiaries. The salary increase rate was 3%-5% for employees in Taiwan, 7% - 8% for  employees in China, and 3% - 5% for employees in other regions. 
 In addition to the salary raise mentioned above, VisEra, due to the di erent nature of the  industry it belongs to and the need to attract valuable talents, raised the starting salary  for newly recruited employees with no prior work experience in 2019. To ensure that its  compensation remains competitive in the labor market, the company also announced a  structural salary raise in average 3% for existing employees. 
 The employee incentive programs take into consideration of TSMC's  nancial and operational  performance, future development and the operational performance of each subsidiaries,with  linkage to employee's job responsibilities and performance. The programs are implemented  with short-term and long-term incentive schemes according to local industry practices. 
 The incentive program of TSMC fabs in Taiwan is implemented over a period of two years. Cash  bonuses are paid quarterly to provide timely incentive, and pro t sharing is paid annually to  encourage long-term service and continuous contribution. The incentive programs of overseas  regions are either by annual cash bonus or by 1 to 3 years of longterm scheme. 
 In 2019, TSMC employees' compensation and bene ts which include salary, allowances, cash  bonus, pro t sharing, pensions and other bene ts, totaled NT 109.9 billion. 
 In 2019, the median of global employees' annual compensation (excluding pensions and  bene ts) was about NT 1.63 million, and the ratio between the total annual compensation of  the CEO and the median employee compensation was about 180:1. Considering the di erences  in compensation structure across countries, the data of median annual compensation is based  on the actual amount paid to fulltime employees with full-year seniority. 
With the continuous growth of the Company s revenue  
and pro t, the expenses of overall compensation and  
bene ts for employees provided by TSMC fabs in Taiwan  
increased from around NT 91.6 billion to NT 109.9 billion  
during the years from 2015 to 2019, and the average  
annual compensation and bene ts per employee  
increased from NT 2.02 million to NT 2.14 million. 
TSMC s revenue increased and pro t decreased sligtly in  
2019. As a result, around NT 46.3 billion of cash bonuses  
and pro t sharing were granted to TSMC fabs in Taiwan,  
slightly lower than 2018. The total compensation of a fresh  
engineer with a master degree is about 31 months of base  
salary, including 12-month base salary, 2-month year-end  
bonus, as well as approximately 17 months of cash bonuses  
and pro t sharing. The average total compensation of  
direct labor is about 26 months of base salary, and the  
Average and Median Compensation 
Average Compensation Median Compensation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
42,605 43,430 
Total Number of Employees 
In addition, in accordance with the law regulated by  
the Taiwan Stock Exchange, listed companies in Taiwan  
are required to disclose the number, the average  
compensation and the median compensation of full- 
time employees in non-executive positions, and the  
di erence comparing to the previous year. The statistics  
are calculated in accordance with the regulations of the  
Taiwan Stock Exchange, which excludes executive o cers  
and employees eligible for exemption. For those not  
employed with the Company for the entire year, the data  
is prorated. And the pro t sharing amount is at pro t-year  
basis therefore part of the compensation data is projected. 
average monthly salary is three times higher than Taiwan s  
minimum wage. TSMC s total compensation for employees  
outperforms our industry peers. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Di erence between current  year and previous year 
Down by 28,000 
Down by 52,000 
Unit: NT  million 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Bene ts that Are Better Than Statutory  Regulations 
To encourage employees in making contributions to the  
company s long-term development, TSMC o ers employee  
bene ts that are better than the statutory requirements  
and regulations, including holidays, insurance, pensions,  
 nancial assistance for emergencies, subsidies for  
marriage  childbirth  funerals, and discounts in designated  
shops. Furthermore, all TSMC facilities are equipped with  
24-hour health centers, where healthcare management  
professionals and appointed on-site physicians provide  
quality services beyond those required by legal statutes.  
The centers work closely with partners such as hospitals  
and Hsinchu Lifeline to o er comprehensive care for  
employees  physical and mental well-being.  
TSMC values the well-being of its employees. The company  
encourages employees to exercise regularly by subsidizing 67  
sports clubs, improving exercise facilities, and holding regular  
sports events to help employees  nd peers with similar  
sports interests for balance between work and life. In 2019,  
TSMC was granted the Exercise Enterprise Certi cation Award  
by Sports Administration of the Ministry of Education.  
TSMC is home to a number of vibrant sports clubs that  
consistently perform well in the Science Park Games,  
including tennis club, badminton club, basketball club,  
softball club, and volleyball club. As part of their e orts to  
ful ll corporate social responsibility, the Ballroom Dance  
club and popular music club took part in volunteer  
activities organized by the TSMC Charity Foundation,  
including visiting Veteran s Home to enjoy new year  
dinners with the elderly. 
TSMC supported its employees in ful lling their family needs through  providing parental bene ts 
Parental Bene ts 
To provide su cient support in their life and work, TSMC  
o ers employees parental leaves in accordance with local  
laws and regulations, sets up four kindergartens for fabs in  
Taiwan, and provides a well-organized leave management  
system. Employees have  exibility in making use of their  
leaves to take care of their children. When facing military  
service or major injuries which require a long period of  
time to heal, employees also can apply for unpaid leaves,  
and then apply for reinstatement after the expiration of the  
period, to ful l both individual and family needs. 
In 2019, a total of 582 employees in TSMC s Taiwan  
facilities and VisEra applied for unpaid parental leaves,  
Note: Data included Taiwan facilities and VisEra 
Newborn Babies in TSMC  in Taiwan 
and a total of 505 employees were scheduled to return  
from unpaid parental leaves, of which 398 employees  
returned either as scheduled or ahead of schedule,  
leading to a return rate of 78.8%. The retention rate,  
on the other hand, was 77.9%, since 345 out of 443  
employees who resumed duty in 2018 were still in service  
by the end of 2019. Such a high retention rate shows  
that TSMC provides e ective support for employees who  
return from unpaid leaves. 
In addition, the number of TSMC employees aged  
between 20 and 64 in Taiwan in 2019 accounted for  
0.29% of Taiwan s population of the same age group.  
Meanwhile, the number of employees  newborns was  
2,531, which was 1.4% of the total number of newborns  
in Taiwan. This is all thanks to a positive result achieved  
from TSMC s high-quality bene ts system. 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Employees on Unpaid Parental Leave in TSMC s Taiwan Facilities and VisEra 
Actual number of employees  returned to work in 2018 
Employees actually returned  to work in 2017 and still in  service in 2018 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Employees applied for  parental leave in 2019 19.1% 
2.3% Application rate 7.6% 
Return rate 78.8% 
(582 7,677) 123   
(398   505) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
77.3% Retention rate 77.9% 
Employees expected to return  to work after parental leave in  2019 
Employees expected to  return to work in 2019 after  parental leave and returned as  scheduled or in advance 
Employees quali ed for  parental leave in 2019 
(345  443) 
E ective Time Management for Work-life  Balance 
To help employees have balance between work and  
life, TSMC enforces a legally compliant work hour  
management. Through training, advocacy, work hour  
management system for managers, and warning SMS or  
emails to employees who stay at company for unusually  
long hours, such measures may help employees work  
more e ciently and are thereby conducive to employees  
maintaining a work-life balance. 
TSMC supported the physical and psychological well-being of employees,  and the balance between work and personal life 
Solid Pension System 
TSMC's employee pension system includes the De ned  
Bene t Plan under the Taiwan Labor Standards Act,  
the De ned Contribution Plan under the Taiwan Labor  
Pension Act, as well as the regulations of the labor law in  
overseas regions. In addition to statutory contributions,  
we invite professional accountants and consultants to  
Pension Allocation and Preparation 
Note: The information above included TSMC Taiwan Facilities and VisEra 
De ned Bene t Plans 
De ned Contribution Plans 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
to employees' personal accounts in Bureau of Labor Insurance 
 TSMC provides a de ned bene ts plan based on an employee's length  of service and average monthly salary for the six-month period prior to  retirement under the Labor Standards Act 
 The money was administered by the Labor Pension Fund Supervisory  Committee and deposited in the Committee's name in the Bank of Taiwan 
pension management department at certain percentages of the basic  
salary of their employees  
 In accordance with the Labor  Pension Act in Taiwan, TSMC contributes  
 TSMC's oversea subsidiaries also make monthly contributions to the  
TSMC's Practices Preparation in 2019 
conduct precise calculations of our company's pension  
fund, so as to assure su cient funding for employee  
pension payments in the future. 
Rewarding Excellence 
TSMC recognizes and encourages employee performance  
through performance management, pro t sharing bonus  
system, development system, and promotion system.  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 TSMC contributes an amount equal to 2% of salaries paid each  month and VisEra contributes a  xed amount to the pension fund 
 The fair value of TSMC's planned assets in Taiwan was  NT 4,301,594,000 at the end of 2019. In accordance with the above  provisions, the amount of recognized expenses of TSMC in 2019  was NT 259,596,000. The amount of accrued pension liabilities to  be contributed in accordance with the law was NT 9,182,496,000  at the end of 2019 
 VisEra's pension reserve amount was NT 1,854,199 
 TSMC in Taiwan makes monthly contributions equal to 6% of each  
employee's monthly salary to employees' pension accounts. The  
total amount of pension in 2019, including contributions from  
oversea subsidiaries, was NT 2,609,733,000 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
For outstanding technical talents, TSMC provides a dual  
career ladder system as an appropriate evaluation and  
recognition approach. For entry level employees, TSMC  
annually holds Excellent Labor Awards and invites the  
families of awardees to join the ceremony and banquet.  
In order to appreciate the commitment and contribution  
of senior employees to the Company, TSMC also provides  
service awards and retirement acknowledgments. 
TSMC hosted Excellent Labor Awards to recognize and praise the  performance of entry level employees. The family members and friends of  Awardees participated in the events to show support. 
In addition, TSMC encourages employees to compete  
for distinguished talent awards o ered outside of the  
company. In 2019, a number of TSMC employees received  
national awards, including the Model Labor Award of  
each Science Park, Outstanding Engineer Award, Excellent  
Young Engineer Award, and National Manager Excellence  
Survey Results on Employee Perception of Core Values 
TSMC s four core values of integrity, commitment,  
innovation, and customer trust were de ned since  
Founder Dr. Morris Chang established the company.  
Today, Chairman Mark Liu and Chief Executive O cer  
C.C. Wei carry on the legacy by requiring all employees to  
serve with the four core values of TSMC in mind. Through  
interactive websites, micro lms, employee-made  lms,  
conferences, lectures, and internal journalism, TSMC s  
Note: The  ve point Likert Scale was employed in the questionnaire 
Integrity Commitment Innovation Customer Trust Average Score 
Employee Commitment  
2014 - 2015 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
2016 - 2017 
leadership continuously engages with managers and  
employees to communicate the company s vision,  
core values, and business philosophy as part of e orts  
to consolidate corporate culture, and deepen mutual  
commitment between the company and its employees.  
To monitor employees  commitment to TSMC s core  
values and to the company, TSMC conducts biennial  
surveys on how employees perceive the company s core  
values, covering 95% of all employees at TSMC and its  
subsidiaries, including TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Response Rates Sample Size 
2018 - 2019 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
(China), TSMC (Nanjing), TSMC North America, TSMC  
Canada, TSMC Europe B.V, TSMC Japan, and TSMC Korea.  
WaferTech and VisEra are not included in the survey due  
to their di erent backgrounds.  
The results of the employee opinion survey on   
core values conducted in 2018 showed an overall average  
signi cant improvement compared with that two years  
ago. In terms of employee engagement, among the two  
questions in the  commitment  section, 98% of the sta   
expressed their willingness to devote themselves to work  
 Commitment  Questions from the Employee Opinion Survey on Company Core Values 
The percentage of respondents who agree and strongly agree on the question  of "I am willing to devote myself to work and make the Company better" 
103 - 2015 2016 - 2017 2018 - 2019 
and make the Company better. 96% of the sta  expressed  
their willingness to grow with the company and show  
their expertise in the next  ve years. The results of the  
above two questions exceeded the expected target of  
95%, indicating that the company s current policies and  
promotion programs have achieved positive results, and  
colleagues generally agree on the implementation of  
the company s core values. The next employee opinion  
survey on core values will be conducted in 2020. 
In the next  ve years, I am willing to contribute my  strengths and grow with the company 
Note 1: The Employee Opinion Survey On Company  Core Values is composed of  ve subscales.  The highest score, 5 points, indicates that the  surveyee  strongly agrees  with the question  while the lowest score is 1 point. Among  the respondents, the number of employees  who answered 4 points (agree) and 5 points  (strongly agree) totalled 40,511, which is 98%  of the total 41,390 respondents 
Note 2: The Employee Opinion Survey On Company  Core Values is composed of  ve subscales.  The highest score, 5 points, indicates that the  surveyee  strongly agrees  with the question  while the lowest score is 1 point. Among  the respondents, the number of employees  who answered 4 points (agree) and 5 points  (strongly agree) totalled 39,875, which is 96%  of the total 41,390 respondents 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Encourage Job Rotation 
Underscore on-the-job training with systematic job rotations to cultivate future talent 
Enable Self-directed Learning 
Provide diverse learning resources and channels to encourage self-directed learning among employees. This will enhance individual performance and potential 
No less than 75% of manager positions shall be  lled through internal  promotions 
No less than 50% of job vacancies shall be  lled through internal transfers 50.8% of job vacancies were  lled through internal transfers  Target: No less than 50% No less than 50% of job vacancies shall be  lled through  internal transfers 
Non-required courses on the e-Learning Platform o ered by the Self-Directed  Learning Program shall register a usage rate of at least 60% Self-learning accounted for 66.3% of learning programs designed for the  speci c needs of organizations Target: No less than 50% 
Talent Development 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Fab18 s personnel were equipped with necessary skills to complete  equipment installation in 2019 and prepare for mass production in 2020 Target: Equip Fab18 personnel with necessary skills to complete equipment installation  
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
in 2019 and prepare for mass production in 2020 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Self-learning shall account for no less than 50% of learning  programs designed for the speci c needs of organizations 
New fab personnel shall be supported and trained with the  completion rate of 100% 
In 2019, TSMC formulated its 2030 Goal for Inclusive  
Workplace: Talent Development to ensure that  
employees   skillsets remain relevant, to support the  
company s long-term growth, and to promote life- 
long learning among employees. In the next decade,  
TSMC will enhance on-the-job training, o er diversi ed  
learning resources, and build comprehensive self- 
learning programs to promote self-learning among  
employees, enhance the learning agility of organizations,  
and help employees grow. To these ends, TSMC has  
formulated two major strategies: encouraging job  
rotation and promoting self-learning. In addition to  
increasing the percentage of job vacancies  lled through  
internal transfers, the Company has also set a target  
for the percentage of manager vacancies  lled through  
internal promotions. Furthermore, since self-learning  
has accounted for more than 50% of learning programs,  
the Company has entered the next phase of self-learning  
advocacy by encouraging employees to take non- 
required online learning courses. 
Encouraging job rotations and promoting self-directed  
learning are important strategies for talent development  
at TSMC. In terms of encouraging job rotations, TSMC  
has proactively implemented on-the-job training and  
certi cation systems, allowing employees to learn and  
improve their work performance in the workplace. The  
Company not only systematically designs job rotation  
programs to cultivate future talent, but also encourages  
its employees to complement their career plans with  
the Company s organization development, so as to  
increase internal talent mobility and allow them to  
utilize their talents and grow. TSMC s e orts have yielded  
Ful ll Talent Development 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
concrete results: in 2019, 50.8% of all job vacancies were  
 lled through internal transfers, thereby achieving the  
Company s short-term target. As part of its long-term  
strategy for human resource development, TSMC has set  
another target: by 2030, no less than 75% of manager  
positions shall be  lled through internal promotions.  
TSMC promotes self-learning by cultivating a self-learning  
mindset in employees and o ering diversi ed learning  
resources and learning tools. Employees are encouraged  
to engage in learning at all places, at all times, and  
in all forms in line with the company s direction of  
development, the speci c needs of each organization,  
and personal requirements. A self-learning culture  
enhances work performance, facilitates corporate growth,  
and contributes to social progress. 
Transparent Framework for Employee  Development and Job Rotation 
To retain talents, TSMC o ers a comprehensive framework  
for employee development, whereby a dual career  
ladder system covering both management and technical  
positions allows employees to explore their full potential in  
either of the two types of positions according to personal  
characteristics and skills.  
Furthermore, the promotion system in the employee  
development framework is based on two major principles:  
transparency on internal vacancies and respect for  
employees  transfer decisions. It considers development  
potential as an important indicator for evaluating  
candidates for promotion. A handbook on promotion  
procedures and numerous relevant tools are o ered to  
managers to help them assess candidate potential. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Human Resource Development Strategies 
   Dual Career   Ladder System  
   Talent Mobility  
   Promotion   Indicators  
Explore employees' potential and  create an environment that encourages  employees to pursue personal growth 
Facilitate talent mobility by ensuring  transparency on internal vacancies,  respecting employees' transfer decisions,  and allowing employees to plan for their  own careers 
Develop a comprehensive employee  development framework, strengthen  HR-related systems and supplementary  measures, and build an environment where  each employee is put in the position that  best suits their abilities 
Potential has been listed as one of the  indicators for evaluating candidates  for promotion 
Employee Development Learning Development  
Enhance employees' commitment to TSMC's core values and  strengthen TSMC's core values as the company expands 
Enhance management literacy among managers at all  levels, thereby strengthening employee commitment 
Customer trust is one of the pillars that underlie TSMC's  competitive edge. TSMC succeeds when customers  succeed. Thus, TSMC is committed to helping customers  excel and strengthen customer-oriented culture 
Encourage self-learning among employees by o ering  diversi ed learning channels and tools  enhance learning  management system to facilitate knowledge sharing 
Provide R D support and train personnel for new fabs,  o ering training courses on topics such as process and  physics to ensure employee capabilities 
   Building a Customer-oriented Culture 
    Enhancing Management Literacy  
Help organizations and employees grow  rapidly to adapt to changing environments  and ful ll the organization needs 
   Improving Learning Systems  and Resources 
   Promoting Corporate Culture  
   Developing Capabilities 
Employee Development Framework   Dual Career Ladder System 
In 2019, 38.2% of managers and 33.2% of professionals  
were transferred or rotated due to either individual or  
organizational development. Due to expansion projects,  
more new employees were recruited in 2019 than in  
the previous year, leading to a slight decrease in the  
percentage of vacancies  lled through internal transfers  
compared with the previous year. However, the rate still  
reached 50.8%, a testimony to TSMC s commitment  
Employees can continue to grow or switch  between management positions and  technical positions according to personal  aptitude and organizational needs. Potential  career pathways for a junior-level technical  project manager can be found below: 
Management Positions 
Responsible for  organization and  personnel management 
Technical Positions 
Focus on technology or  other professional  elds 
Strengthen professional skills and  advance into mid-level technical  project management positions 
Transition into management  roles and transfer into junior-level  management positions 
Transition into management  roles and advance into mid-level  management positions 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Junior-level Technical   Project Manager Mid-level Technical   Project Manager Senior Technical   Project Manager 
Junior-level  Managers Mid-level  Managers Senior  Managers 
to internal mobility and comprehensive leadership  
development. Going forward, TSMC will continue to  
improve the dual career ladder system of employee  
development and, by enhancing internal transfer  
management, ensure that no less than 50% of vacancies  
are  lled through internal transfers, a strategy that drives  
both organizational and personal development. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Diverse and Equal Opportunities for  Learning and Development 
Given that the Company s growth is closely related to  
employees  personal learning and development, TSMC  
designs employee learning and development programs  
based on three key elements: goal, plan, and discipline.  
The company is committed to building a diverse and  
Key Objectives of Personnel Development 
Dual Career Ladder  Approach 
Develop a comprehensive employee  development framework, strengthen  HR-related systems and supplementary  measures, and build an environment  where each employee is put in the  position that best suits their abilities 
    Clari ed the di erences between  management jobs and technical  jobs, and introduced performance  appraisal and development  procedures 
    Provided di erent training courses  for managers, and technical and  professional managers 
    Regularly selected Fellow and  Academician of TSMC Academy to  support the career development  of technical sta s 
Talent Mobility 
Facilitate talent mobility by ensuring  transparency on internal vacancies,  respecting employees' transfer  decisions, and allowing employees to  plan for their own careers 
    Established related managerial  policies of internal job position  transparency and job transfer  e ectiveness among transfer  procedures. Helped managers  better understand and implement  regulations via communication 
    38.2% of managers and 33.2% of  professionals were transferred or  rotated due to either individual or  organizational development 
equal learning environment that encourages continuous  
learning and o ers rich content. It has also formulated  
the TSMC Employee Training and Education Procedures  
to integrate internal and external resources, enhance  
employee capabilities, and help employees grow with  
the company.  
Promotion Indicator    Employee Potential 
Potential has been listed as one of the  indicators for evaluating candidates for  promotion 
    Clari ed the de nition of "Potential"  and its evaluation method to make  it one of the criteria for promotion 
    Completed the promotion  procedures handbook and related  tools to help managers conduct  potential evaluation for employee  promotion 
TSMC s employees set individual development plans  
according to personal requirements, mid-year and year- 
end performance review, and career development goals.  
Employees  personal development plans form one of the  
bases on which the company s annual training program  
is designed. In 2019, employee performance assessment  
registered a completion rate of 100%. In 2019, TSMC  
provided over 740,000 hours of training programs and  
Note: Due to the design di erences between training systems, the average evaluation score excluded data from TSMC North America 
Unit: hour Historical Training Index  
Training Hours Trainees Who Completed Training Certi ed Internal Instructors 
Average Evaluation Score of Course Satisfaction 
551,752 527,553 450,756 
1,198 1,257 
780,546 741,178 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 
93 93 94 95 93 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
623,711 639,852 
activities for learning and development to over 700,000  
participants. Each employee received, on average,  
over 14 hours of training. The total expense on training  
reached NT 59 million. 
To ensure the e ectiveness of training programs, TSMC  
measures the outcome with four levels of evaluation  
- reaction, learning, behavior, and results - based on  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Average Hours of Training per Employee 
the theory proposed by American scholar Donald L.  
Kirkpatrick. In 2019, all open courses were evaluated  
on the reaction level, including contents, instructor,  
administration, and satisfaction scores. The courses  
received an overall satisfaction score of 93. A total of  
584,749 participants completed 3,534 online courses  
and learning evaluations. 5% of the open courses  
and customized courses were further evaluated on  
Manager Indirect Labor Direct Labor 
the behavioral level. Most on-the-job training o ered  
by internal organizations were further evaluated at  
the learning and behavioral level, and evaluations at  
the results level have been built into the employee  
performance management and development system. 
2019 Key Objectives for Learning and Development Programs 
          Objectives 
          Completion rate among participants 
          Status 
Deepening engineers'  junior-level managers' domain  knowledge in front-end and back-end processes 
A devolved three-phase training program executed by fab-level managers (1) Training on wafer processes  (2) Professional development for process engineers  (3) Study group presentation sessions 
Through lectures, self-study sessions, group study sessions, and  practice, the program aimed to re ne engineers ' professional skills  and domain knowledge in production processes 
O ered in 13 fabs with a completion rate of 100% 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Professional Training for Engineers   Junior-level Managers Technical Depth Enhancement Project 
(10,279   10,279) 
100% Completed Ongoing 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
          Objectives 
          Completion rate among participants 
          Status 
Equip managers with the ability to foster a work environment  conducive to mutual respect and high employee commitment,  thereby building an open communication environment 
Three major learning objectives (1) Empathy and respect: managers must be empathetic and  respect individual di erences (2) E ective communication: managers must be open-minded and  able to listen and ask the right questions, thereby communicating  e ectively with employees  (3) Con ict management: managers must adopt con ict  management strategies to address con icts and exert positive  in uence 
Management Training in Operation  Organizations  A Program for Mid-level Management 
59.3% Completed 
(178   300) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
          Objectives 
          Completion rate among participants 
          Status 
Introduce the concept of and methods for self-directed learning  
O er online courses on eight major topics, each of which comes  complete with a variety of learning resources including online  lectures, articles on professional knowledge from internal and  external sources, video clips, and books. Online courses received  11,958 clicks 
Encourage the use of online learning resources and promote self- learning concept among employees 
Encourage Self-learning   All You Can Learn!  
(3,080   29,950) 
10.3% Completed 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Enforce TSMC Human Rights Policy, Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct, and United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
No material regulatory violation (where  nes exceed NT 1 million) No material regulatory violation  Target: No material regulatory violation No material regulatory violation 
Human Rights 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
E-voting system was adopted for the election of new labor representatives in one  of TSMC s Taiwan facilities Target: Adopt e-voting system for the election of new labor representatives in any one of TSMC s  
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
facilities 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
All of TSMC s Taiwan facilities shall adopt an e-voting  system for the election of new labor representatives and  list e-voting systems as the only voting method for all  future elections of the same kind 
In 2019, TSMC formulated its 2030 Goal for Inclusive  
Workplace: Human Rights to continue to live by its  
commitment to human rights. Guided by the core  
value of Commitment, TSMC considers employees as  
its most important asset, o ering them meaningful job  
responsibilities, a safe and healthy work environment, and  
rewarding compensations and bene ts. At the same time,  
TSMC encourages employees to achieve work-life balance  
by engaging with family, friends, and personal interests. In  
the future, TSMC will continue to enforce its human rights  
policy in accordance with the United Nations Guiding  
Principles on Business and Human Rights and Responsible  
Business Alliance Code of Conduct. 
Risk Assessment 
SAQ Assessment Scores (2019) 
VAP Assessment Scores (2019) 
VAP Assessment Scores (2016-2018) 
Full marks   200 
Note: Advanced Backend Fab3 and VisEra are  expected to be included in the 2020 SAQ  assessment 
  Low risk (   85) 
 Medium risk (   65    85) 
High risk ( 65)  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Corporate Headquarters    
As the largest dedicated semiconductor foundry in  
the world, TSMC is committed to building a safe work  
environment for its employees and in its supply chain,  
respecting and protecting the dignity of its employees,  
protecting the environment, and enforcing strict ethical  
standards. To these ends, TSMC has become a full  
member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA),  
the largest electronics business alliance in the world,  
conducting due diligence to ensure that its code of  
Human Rights Risk Mitigation 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
SAQ SAQ VAP VAP VAP VAP 
Taiwan Overseas 
Advanced Backend   Fab2 
Advanced Backend   Fab3 
Advanced Backend   Fab1 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
conduct complies with or outperforms the Responsible  
Business Alliance Code of Conduct. 
Using RBA s self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ),  
TSMC conducts annual assessments to identify internal  
operations bearing the highest social, environmental,  
and moral hazards. In 2019, TSMC s headquarters and  
all facilities worldwide scored over 90 on SAQ, thus  
classifying TSMC facilities as low risk. Between 2016  
TSMC (Nanjing)     
TSMC (China)     
and 2018, TSMC commissioned a third-party institute  
trained in social and environmental audit to conduct  
RBA s Validated Assessment Program (VAP) on all fabs  
in addition to TSMC s annual SAQ assessment. Of the 16  
fabs, 14 scored full marks. In 2019, TSMC, responding to  
customer demand, conducted VAP audits on seven fabs,  
six of which scored full marks again. TSMC s customers  
can access a complete audit report on RBA-Online. 
WaferTech    
          Targets and Actions 
          Risk Assessment 
          Risk Reduction Measures 
          Remedies 
Human Rights Policy Concerns and Practices 
 Implement occupational disease prevention and  promote physical and mental health of employees 
 Record whether any occupational diseases were caused  by chemical exposure 
 Self-help participation rate indicates the e ectiveness of  promoting employee health 
 Quarterly meetings on occupational health management  are convened by vice presidents. Participating members  include ESH, fab directors, the Department of Industrial  Safety and Environmental Protection, the Legal and Human  Resources functions, and the Wellness Management  Section 
 Allocate exemplary-quali ed medical personnel to provide  a wide spectrum of 24 7 health services, including special  protection, healthcare services, health promotion, and  employee assistance services 
 Immediate Removal from current position 
 Provide adequate medical assistance 
 Provide compensatory leave and subsidies according  to laws and regulations 
 Prevent disease recurrence 
 Occupational Disease Investigation Committee 
Internal Communication  Channels for Employees           Internal Communication  Channels for Employees           Internal Communication  Channels for Employees           Internal Communication  Channels for Employees           Internal Communication  Channels for Employees 
Safe   Healthy  Workplace 
People A ected: All Employees  
Number of Employees Under High-risk  Conditions: 4,146 employees were under   Special Health Examination Management  (Please refer to Occupational Safety and Health) 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
          Targets and Actions 
          Risk Assessment 
          Risk Reduction Measures 
          Remedies 
 From the beginning of recruitment, TSMC follows internal control  procedures to eliminate discrimination. Additionally, TSMC will not ask  applicants for any information that are not related to their jobs when  applicants submit their resumes through the Company's resume system 
 Strictly comply with government labor laws, international labor standards,  and the "TSMC Human Rights Policy" to implement relevant internal rules  and regulations 
 Promote and implement internal control procedures by making known  the non-discrimination policy in the TSMC Candidate Interview Process  - one does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, social  class, language, belief, religion, political preference, nationality, birth  place, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, pregnancy, physical  appearance, facial expressions, or disability 
 Make necessary adjustments according to  ndings from internal control  and inspections 
 Include the non-discrimination policy in training courses for Human  Resources managers 
 In noti cations for internal interviews in TSMC, interviewers will be explicitly  reminded not to ask applicants about any personal information that is not  job-related during the interview 
 From the beginning of recruitment, all TSMC hiring procedures are to  comply with the law and eliminate illegal discrimination 
 No action needed by TSMC 
 External people can  le a report or complaint through the  "Irregular Business Conduct Reporting" on TSMC's o cial website 
Non-discrimination   Equal  Employment Opportunity 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
People A ected: Newcomers  
Number of Employees Under High-risk  Conditions: 0 
          Targets and Actions 
          Risk Assessment 
          Risk Reduction Measures 
          Remedies 
 Applicants are required to provide  identity documents, such as a National  Identi cation Card driver's license, National  Health Insurance Card, or a diploma, to  prove they are over 18 years old 
 In line with the "TSMC Human Rights  Policy," the company amended and  implemented the "TSMC Internal  Control Procedures for Conducting  Interviews." In compliance to the  procedures, TSMC only accepts  applicants over 18 years old and will  double check the age of new employees  to avoid any mistakes or omissions 
 From the beginning of recruitment, all TSMC  hiring procedures are to comply with the  law and eliminate child labor issues 
 No action needed by TSMC 
 External people can  le a report or  complaint through the "Irregular  Business Conduct Reporting" on  TSMC's o cial website 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Prohibit Child  Labor 
People A ected:  Newcomers 
Number of Employees  Under High-risk  Conditions: 0 
          Targets and Actions 
          Risk Assessment 
          Risk Reduction Measures 
          Remedies 
    employees to report any issue 
 In strict compliance with government labor  laws, international labor standards, and the  "TSMC Human Rights Policy," TSMC will not  force nor threaten any non-willing personnel  to carry out work-related tasks 
 Work regulations stipulate that should the  need for overtime work arise, employee  consent must be received. Following overtime  work, overtime pay or compensatory leave  must be provided to employees 
 In addition to using internal systems to  control and monitor working hours, TSMC  has established internal communication  channels and convened communication  meetings in all fabs to raise awareness and  inspect for any forced labor 
 Set a reminder function in both time clock and  overtime systems. Conduct monthly inspections  of working hours in company facilities 
 If there is any evidence of forced labor,  supervisors will be required to make the  necessary improvements and restitute the  rights to which employees are entitled  
 Internal communication channels  include the Employee Opinion Box and  the Ombudsman System. There are also  regular communication meetings for 
Prohibit Forced  Labor 
People A ected:   All Employees  
Number of Employees  Under High-risk  Conditions:  0 
          Targets and Actions 
          Risk Assessmentt 
          Risk Reduction Measures 
          Remedies 
 Conduct questionnaires after each activity to  make improvements in the future 
 Move up the date to draw lots for the use of  child care facilities. This will allow those who did  not draw a slot to have adequate time to  nd  other child care facilities 
 Provide a variety of activities, including art  activities, sports events, family activities, and  parent-child activities. Provide opportunities  for community involvement to help broaden  interpersonal interactions among colleagues  and enrich their work-life balance 
 Provide child care facilities and implement child  care measures to assist employees. Additionally,  provide educational counselling services to  allow employees to work with a sense of security 
 Examine participation rates 
 Increase the quota on company-owned child  care facilities 
 Collaborate with members of the TSMC Employee  Welfare Committee and activity organizers to  promote activities and encourage participation 
  Internal communication channels  include the Employee Opinion Box and  Ombudsman System. There are also  regular communication meetings for  employees to report any issues 
Physical   Mental Health and  Work-life Balance in Employees 
People A ected: All Employees    Employees in Need 
Number of Employees Under High- risk Conditions: 0, 0 
Human Rights Protection Training Practices 
Promote Regulatory Compliance in  
New Employee Orientation 
Contents include prohibition on forced labor  
and child labor, anti-discrimination, anti-sexual  
harassment, working hours management, and  
humane treatment 
Provide E-learning Courses for  
Sexual Harassment Prevention 
Contents include the de nition and prevention  
of sexual harassment and approaches to deal  
with sexual harassment 
Promote Prevention of Workplace  
Help employees understand what workplace  
bullying is and how to avoid any form of it  
in order to create a friendly, bully-free work  
environment 
Provide Comprehensive  
Occupational Safety Training 
Provide employees with training for di erent  
work situations. Training includes  re safety,  
emergency response,  rst-aid, general safety  
and health education, fab safety, and safety  
training for newly-promoted managers 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Note: The data between 2014 and 2016 excluded TSMC (Nanjing) and VisEra 
Human Rights Protection Training  and Participation 
In 2019, TSMC provided employees with a total  
of 116,907 hours of human rights protection  
training. In total, 48,763 employees (92,971 training  
attendances) completed the training program,  
accounting for 95% of TSMC s total employees. Going  
forward, TSMC will continue to focus on human  
rights protection and offer training programs to raise  
awareness of human rights among employees to  
minimize risks. 
57,885 67,712 
Number of Attendees 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Number of Training Hours 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC highly values employee opinions and rights, and  
provides several communication channels. The highest- 
level executives of the HR organization are responsible for  
many of the channels, ensuring that employee opinions  
All  Employees 
Employee Communication 
Face-to-face Communication 
Employee Portal 
Employee Survey 
HR Area Service Team 
e-Silicon Garden  
Employee Voice Channels 
 Communication Meetings in Individual Functions   Divisions 
 Chairman's  CEO's Communication Meeting 
 Labor-Management Meeting 
 Functional Activity 
 Ombudsman System 
 Employee Opinion Box 
 Whistleblower Procedures 
 Fab Caring Circle 
 Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee 
  113 Caring Hotline 
TSMC Internal Communications Structure 
are handled in an e cient and con dential way to  
ensure open and transparent communications between  
managers and employees. Furthermore, TSMC respects  
employees  right to take part in collective bargaining and  
peaceful rallies. In accordance with legal requirements in  
Taiwan, the company holds labor-management meetings  
periodically to brief employees on corporate operations  
Human Resources  
System   Committee Chair 
Managers of All  Levels 
Board of  Directors and  Management  Level 
Note 1: The  gures for Ombudsman System, Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee, Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System, and Employee  Opinion Box cover all TSMC facilities, while the  gure for Fab Caring Circle covers only TSMC s Taiwan facilities Note 2: Cases reported through the Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System were included for the  rst time in 2019, thus increasing the total number of  cases reported 
Number of Cases Reported Through Internal Communication Channels 
and discuss with employees on issues such as working  
conditions and bene ts. To facilitate labor-management  
communication, TSMC s plants in the Central Taiwan  
Science Park adopted an e-voting system for the election  
of new labor representatives in 2018. In 2019, TSMC s  
Longtan plant also adopted an e-voting system for the  
election of  ve labor representatives, thereby expanding  
employee participation.    
Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System   Number of Cases Reported 
Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System   Number of Veri ed Cases upon Investigation 
Total Number of Cases Fab Caring Circle Cases Employee Opinion Box Cases Ombudsman System Cases 
Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee   Cases Established 
Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee   Cases Reported 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 
589 589 712 645 643 
106 60 80 79 141 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
3,856 3,632 3,151 
4,688 4,395 
In 2019, TSMC s internal communication channels  
handled a total of 3,998 cases of employee opinions and  
complaints, including four through the Sexual Harassment  
Investigation Committee, 141 through the Ombudsman  
System, 643 through the Employee Opinion Box, 3,151  
through the Fab Caring Circle, and 59 cases through the  
Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System. All reported  
cases have been processed and addressed by competent  
organizations. Cases reported through the Sexual  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Unit: Number of cases 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Employee Voice Channels 
Note: Cases reported via 113 Caring Hotline and SMS are handled by designated people and directed to other voice channels 
Harassment Investigation Committee and the Ombudsman  
System were investigated and reviewed by committee  
members. Cases reported through the Employee Opinion  
Box were handled by responsible persons, who would  
then communicate with employees about the solutions  
and outcome. Employees can access these internal  
communication channels via the internal employee portal.  
These channels are also introduced to new employees to  
ensure that all employees are well-informed. 
Employee Opinion Box Various Issues in Fabs 
 Person in Charge:   
Vice President, Human Resources 
113 Caring Hotline Personal and Work-related  Issues 
Fab Caring Circle Various Issues in Fabs 
 Person in Charge:   
 Person in Charge: Fab Directors 
Vice President, Human Resources 
Complaint Regarding Account and Legal Matters 
Whistleblower Procedures 
 Person in Charge: Chairman of TSMC Audit Committee 
Employee Voice  Channels 
With these e ective internal communication channels,  
the relationship between the management level and  
employees has been harmonious over the years. TSMC  
has always respected employee rights to form a labor  
union, but so far none have been formed.  
SMS Personal and Work-related Issues 
 Person in Charge:   
Vice President, Human Resources 
Ombudsman System Major Management Errors    Workplace Violence and  Financial Auditing Issues 
Sexual Harassment  Investigation Committee Sexual Harassment Issues 
 Person in Charge:   
Senior Director 
 Person in Charge:   
Deputy Director, Legal 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Build a Safety Culture 
Deeply instill a people-oriented safety culture, manage safety risks, and establish an intrinsically safe working environment 
Comprehensive Health Management 
Safeguard the physical well-being of employees by preventing occupational diseases 
Internal-External Alliance 
Collaborate with external parties to establish safer working environments in our supply chain 
Note 1: Beginning in 2020, all TSMC employees and contractors will be included in the calculation of incident rate per 1,000 employees Note 2: Beginning in 2020, Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR) and Disabling Severity Rate (SR) will include both work-related and non-work related  injuries  See Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information Note 3: Vendors with high risk operations include vendors who scored lower than 70 in the last annual audit, new vendors, and vendors covered by the annual coaching  
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR)  0.45 Note 2 FR: 0.93  Work-related Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate: 0.5  Note 6 
Disabling Severity Rate (SR)  6 SR: 15  Work-related Disabling Severity Rate:  9  Note 6 
Health Program Participation Rate   55% Health Promotion Program Participation Rate: 52.79% Target:   52.5% Health Promotion Program Participation Rate   53% 
Assist all contractors with high risk operations in obtaining ISO 45001 certi cation  for occupational health and safety management system  Note 4 Assisted 50% of our contractors engaged in high risk operations in obtaining  ISO 45001 certi cation for occupational health and safety management  system Target: 50% 
Incident Rate per 1,000 employees   0.20  Note 1 Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees:  0.425  Note 5 
Zero cases of occupational disease caused by exposure to chemicals Zero cases of occupational disorders caused by exposure to chemicals Target: 0 Zero cases of occupational disorders caused by exposure  to chemicals 
Completion rate of providing consultation to all vendors with high risk operations and  auditing health and safety standards in their facilities: 100%  Note 3 Provided coaching to all vendors with high risk operations and audited  health and safety implement status in their facilities  Target: 100% 
Occupational Safety and Health 
project (e.g. parts cleaning service providers). Since the portfolio changes year from year, TSMC continues to coach and audit those identi ed as such 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Target:  0.20 Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees   0.20 
Target:   0.45  0.3 FR   0.45 
Target:   6  3.1 SR   6 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Note 4: Contractors with high risk operations include those engaged in con ned space work, live-line work, hot work, or gas chemical tubes cutting.  Since new contractors are recruited every year, TSMC continues to coach and audit those identi ed as such Note 5: The target for Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees was missed. Please see Safety Performance Index for details l on corrective measures Note 6: The targets for Disabling Severity Rate (SR) and Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR) were missed. Please see Statistical Analysis of Disabling  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Injuries for reasons identi ed 
Provide coaching to all vendors with high risk operations  and audit health and safety implement status in their  facilities 
Assist 60% of our contractors engaged in high risk  operations in obtaining ISO 45001 certi cation for  occupational health and safety management system 
safety management and create a safe and friendly  
environment together with its contractors. To help  
TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing) build healthy  
and safe workplaces, TSMC launched in 2019  
a special project on environmental safety and  
health for businesses, which is responsible for  
conducting regular reviews on relevant regulations  
and communicating with stakeholders about the  
feasibility of regulations, thereby helping TSMC s  
subsidiaries optimize their workplaces. 
To ensure occupational safety and health  
implementing, TSMC established an organization  
with a clear division of roles and responsibilities to  
meet the needs and expectations of internal and  
external stakeholders. In 2019, TSMC continued  
to promote safety culture and improve risk  
management procedures. Due to expansion projects,  
TSMC premises were visited in 2019 by an average  
of 32,168 contractors staff each day. Therefore,  
TSMC published The Blue Book on Environmental  
Safety and Health for Contractors  Note to strengthen  
Note: The Blue Book on Environmental Safety and Health for Contractors  by TSMC covers 6 major categories in 73 chapters: guidelines for  contractors entering TSMC premises, regulations on the handling of  proprietary information, emergency response, rules on cleanrooms,  regulations on applying for construction permits, and regulations on  general operations. This guide book uses visual illustrations in lieu of  written descriptions to allow for easier comprehension and stricter  adherence, thereby better ensuring the safety of TSMC s operations 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
     Occupational Health Risk Inspection 
     Chemical Exposure Evaluation 
     Noise and Non-ionizing Radiation Protection 
     Human Factor Engineering Management 
     Foundry-level Safety and Health Meetings 
     Contractor Management 
     Foundry-level Prevention of Occupational  Diseases 
     Assist Subsidiaries in Developing Regulations  for Occupational Safety and Health and  Setting Performance Targets NEW   
     Healthcare 
     Assistance 
Internal Safety and Health Management Collaborating with Other Enterprises to Reduce Occupational Safety and Health Risks 
All Departments 
Implement all safety and health related activities 
Wellness Center 
Responsible for implementing health promotions and management 
Site level-Depaftment  of Industrial Safety and  Environmental Protection Promote safety and health related activities 
     Health Promotion 
     Prevention of  Occupational Hazards 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
     Enact Policies, Targets, and Plans 
     Introduce New Technology and  Management Procedures 
     Safety and Health Inspection 
     Company-level Safety and Health  Meetings 
     Discussion with Stakeholders About Safety  and Health Issues 
     Safety and Health Requests for Suppliers  to Build a Sustainable Supply Chain 
     Investigation Council for Occupational  Diseases to Implement the Prevention of  Occupational Diseases 
Construct corresponding blueprints, management protocols, and SOPs 
Corporate Environmental Protection, Safety, and Health Division 
Government, TSIA, SEMI  Organizations, Collages and  Universities 
Suppliers and Contractors 
Improve safety, health, and working environment with the collaboration between four parties 
Improve the safety and health of the supply chain with guidance and collaboration 
A comprehensive safety culture lies at the foundation  
of a healthy workplace. TSMC promotes safety  
culture in three aspects people, environment, and  
behavior by encouraging employees to proactively  
raise suggestions on improving safety at work. By  
starting from minutiae, TSMC seeks to nip potential  
threats in the bud and build a people oriented safety  
Safety and Health Measures 
Following the Company s Safety and Health Policy, TSMC  
Safety and Health E orts in 2019 
implemented the following measures and used the  
Safety Performance Index (SPI) to track performances to  
build a safety culture and manage risks. 
Regulation  inspections  
Execution  review  
Promote a Safety Culture 
Change  management  
Standardizing  management  procedures  
Emergency  response  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Chemicals  management  
Training  programs  on safety and  health 
Occupational  Accident  Prevention 
Contractor  management 
Hazard  identi cation  
Job  Observation  Safety   Analysis 
Standardized  Management  Procedures 
Job Observation  Safety Analysis  
Regulation Inspection      Relevant regulations and the compliance of all facilities were reviewed on a regular basis. A total of four safety and health  related regulations were amended 
Training Programs on  Safety and Health 
Hazard Identi cation      A total of 6,966 operation environments and operation procedures were reviewed to identify potential hazards 
Change Management      A total of 2,997 cases of change management were completed with zero relatedincidents 
Chemicals Management      A total of 175 chemicals were introduced with zero related incidents 
Contractor Management      Contractors engaged in a total of 24,563 high risk operations with zero related incidents 
Execution Review      A total of 1,581 improvements were suggested after internal audit. All improvements were addressed within the timeframe speci ed 
Emergency Response 
Occupational Accident  Prevention 
Note 1: Includes TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing) Note 2: A regulation review platform that covers TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing) was  scheduled to be launched in 2019 to address discrepancies in legal regulations in di erent jurisdictions  where TSMC operates. The launch was postponed to 2020 due to problems in the setup of domain  rewalls. 
2019 Safety and Health Measures 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Approaches Speci c Measures Taiwan  Facilities Overseas  Facilities  note 1  
     A total of 54 documents on safety and health management procedures were standardized, and 46 documents were amended  after review 
     In 2019, all Taiwan facilities obtained ISO 45001 certi cation on occupational health and safety  Note 3 
     Training programs on safety and health were o ered to employees and contractors to reinforce compliance and enhance  emergency response capabilities  Note 4 
     Occupational health and safety specialists were invited to provide professional training to a total of 154 participants in order to  better prevent occupational hazard 
     To enhance the company's capacity to respond to compound disasters, regular drills began to cover major disasters, and results  were used as a basis for amendment to 108 drill scripts. 
     To reduce and improve the number of occupational injuries, ad hoc meetings on employee injuries were convened on a regular  basis to analyze the underlying causes and promote improvement measures in all facilities. 
     Employees were encouraged to proactively raise suggestions for possible improvements to their own work environment. A total  of 1,611 suggestions for improvements were raised, and all were addressed with responsive measures 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 3: TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing) are scheduled to be certi ed in 2020. Note 4: 2019 Training Program Statistics  
Case Study 
Encourage Employees to Speak Up  Ensure Both TSMC   Our Employees Safeguard a Culture Safety 
As part of its effort to build a safety culture  
mutual protection between both the company  
and its employees, TSMC aims to reduce  
the number of incidents and the rate of  
repeated injuries. In 2019, jobs observation  
safety analysis was included in the Safety  
Performance Index. Employees were  
encouraged to observe their own working area  
     Project closure reports shall  provide evidence of improvement Able to signi cantly reduce the  chance of injury among personnel  in a speci c functional unit. C 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Able to prevent incidents or  signi cantly reduce the risk of major  injuries that require hospitalization.  E.g. crush injuries exposure to  chemicals occupational diseases  
Able to signi cantly reduce  potential safety and health risks  of equipment of the same type  and to be applied in all facilities 
Suggestions in 2019 De nition Level 
     Improvement projects shall  specify aims, approaches, and  budgets 
     Project closure reports shall  provide evidence of improvement 
     Improvement projects shall  specify aims, approaches, and  budgets 
     Project closure reports shall  provide evidence of improvement 
and proactively raise suggestions for possible  
improvements. Safety and health management  
specialist will work together with employees  
to identify opportunities for improvement, and  
confirm the validity of the improvement. In  
2019, a total of 1,611 job observation analysis  
were raised and were classified into three risk  
levels: A, B, and C. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Employee Suggestions 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Before Improvement 
After Improvement 
Operators had to carry the maintenance  tools onto the top of the tank when  performing quarterly pump oil change  for the waste water and pure water  system. 
To collect waste oil, the operator had  to keep a fixed posture and waste oil  e uent into the bucket by gravity. Each  operation took 6.5 hours. 
The operators designed a special  jig. By injecting air into the system,  the jig automatically pushes out the  residual oil, which then  ows through  a tube into the waste bucket. The time  needed for the operation was thus  reduced to 1 hour. 
Reduced Operation Time  100% 
Manual Workload Reduced  
Safety Performance Index  
TSMC s Safety Performance Index (SPI) were classi ed  
into four levels and two subtypes active index and  
passive index. The active index encourages employees  
to participate in safety and health programs and raise  
suggestions for safety improvements, while the passive  
index shows the number of safety related defects,  
false alarm incidents. In 2019, the  blue light  indicator  
appeared slightly less frequently than the previous year,  
from 89.4% to 88.8%. The decline was mainly caused  
by the increase of the number of near miss, andfalse  
alarm incidents from 10 to 21, 11 of which were personal  
injuries, 6 of which were  re false alarms, and 4 of which  
were gas false alarms. 
Safety Performance Index Chart 
Note: The index covers TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC (China), and TSMC  (Nanjing) 
Excellent Good Warning Alarm 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Unit: number of incidents  per thousand employees Unit:   
Historical Incidents 
Gas false alarm 
Chemical leakage Fire false alarm 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Number of Changed Safety Management within Foundries 
 Safety and Health Program Targets   (Set annual targets, and execute job observed analysis and complete implement) 
 Completion Rate of Safety and Health Trainings 
 Number of Safety and Health Promotion Activities 
 Improving Measures of Occupational Hazards NEW 
 Share Improving Actions of Safety and Health with Other Foundries NEW 
Personal injury 
Active Indicators Passive Indicators 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 1: The  gures include TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing) Note 2: Beginning 2020, the Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees shall be calculated with the total number of individuals entering TSMC companies as the  denominator, including employees and contractors. 
Historical Near Miss Incidents and False Alarm 
Number of near miss incidents and false alarms 
Number of incidents  total number of individuals having entered TSMC 
0.133 0.170 0.123 0.211 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
 Number of False Alarm Incident 
 Number of Self-evaluated Safety and Health Errors 
 Completion Rate of Legal Inspection Implementation 
 Number of Errors Found During Safety and Health Inspections 
 Contractor Management (incl. numbers of errors, miss operations, and improving measures) 
 Number of Work-relative Occupational Injury 
Number of near miss incidents and false alarms  number of employees 
Improvement  Measures in 2019 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Reducing Personal Injuries 
Safety Targets Include Contractors  
Near Miss Investigation with Quality Analysis Tool 3L5W 
Reducing Gas False Alarms 
Since many false alarms were caused by cast resin transformers installed in TSMC facilities, a special project to prevent faults in cast  resin transformers was launched, and the number of  re false alarms declined from 5 in 2018 to 1 in 2019 Reducing Fire False Alarms 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Employees Contractors 
Out of 6 cases of employee injury, 2 were bone fractures as a result of falling while walking and  were con rmed to not have been caused by unsafe work environment. Other incidents have  resulted in the following improvement measures:  
 Equipment maintenance shall add cover on conveyor belt and clippers, or equip with  protection plates in order to reduce injuries caused by machinery 
 Stricter rules on the use of herringbone ladders and the cutout and fencing of elevated  oors to  prevent falling 
 In 2019, a two-year LOTO (Lock out Tag out) project was launched. Equipment engineers are  now required to lock out and tag out all moving parts that may cause crush injuries and include  this procedure in the maintenance procedure handbooks. The results of this project shall be  published in 2020 CSR report 
Due to a signi cant increase in incoming contractors, contractors were included in the calculation of incidents. In 2020, contractor management and premise  entry control systems will be integrated. Contractors that fail to complete TSMC's safety and health training course will be barred from entering TSMC. This  policy is expected to facilitate the company in reaching its goal of reducing the Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees to no more than 0.2 
The TSMC Chemicals Management Procedure was amended to include acceptance quality levels (AQL) for chemical-related containers,  components, and parts and to enforce stricter installation check procedures and tightening the pressure speci cation of leakage check for  pressurized toxic gases such as Silane (SiH4) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Through 3L5W, the safety standards for selecting equipment materials were set. The rules for selecting  materials were written into procurement regulations and covered by safety management of change to  reduce near misses caused by mis-selection of materials 
In 2019, TSMC received an average of 32,168 incoming contractors every day, up from 22,293  in 2018, who performed an average of 24,563 high-risk operating works every day. 5 cases of  contractor injuries have resulted in the following measures: 
 TSMC and Contractors Launch Contractor 100 Campaign to Create Safe and Friendly Working  Environment Together. Please refer to "TSMC and Contractors Launch Contractor 100  Campaign to Create Safe and Friendly Working Environment Together" for details 
 Video surveillance equipment was installed at work sites to send live footage to an  emergency response center responsible for monitoring every high risk operating works in  real time to ensure safe work and environment 
Statistical Analysis on Disabling Injuries  
Occupational injuries were calculated according to  
important indicators determined by the Ministry  
of Labor and GRI Standards. The Disabling Injuries  
Frequency Rate (FR) and the Disabling Severity  
Rate (SR) served as the main indicators, while  
at-work or off-work road traffic incidents were  
not included. In 2019, a total of 78 occupational  
injuries transpired in TSMC facilities, resulting in  
Note: The  gures cover TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra 
Total Working Hours, Injury Cases, and Working Days Lost 
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate Number of injury cases Total work hour Injury Cases Working Days Lost 
86,524,246 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
82,115,207 
1,265 work days lost. Specifically, the Disabling  
Injuries Frequency Rate (FR) and Disabling Severity  
Rate (SR) for females were significantly higher than  
those for males.  
Fall-related injuries were the most common,  
accounting for 32% of the cases and 49% of work  
days lost. To be specific, fall-related injuries and  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
94,146,363 
84,141,102 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate by Gender 
Note: The  gures cover TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra 
the resultant work days lost were significantly  
higher for females than males. Females accounted  
for 95% of fall-related injuries and 91% of work  
days lost. Among injured females, 71% were  
technical staff aged 45-55 years. Investigations and  
interviews revealed that the main causes of fall  
were distracted walking and loss of balance while  
turning. Time to recovery averaged 15-60 days.  
Male Female 
Note: The  gures cover TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra 
In addition to posters, safety officers conducted  
regular inspections on collision-prone and fall- 
prone environments, included lighting in operation  
environment checks, and added osteoporosis  
prevention and treatment to the 2020 health  
education program. 
Disabling Severity Rate by Gender 
Male Female 
The Disabling Severity Rate (SR) and the Disabling Injuries  
Frequency Rate (FR) slightly increased in 2019 compared  
to 2018 mainly due to larger sta  size. The main types of  
injury remained the same as last year: bone fractures and  
sprained ankles caused by falls and collisions. Time to  
recovery lengthened, resulting in a signi cant increase in  
work days lost. 
To prevent fall accidents in 2020, re ector stickers and  
warning signs will be installed in fall-prone stairways.  
Preventative Measures for Falls and Collisions 
Raise sta  awareness  through warning  posters and announcing  measures in meetings 
 Refrain from using the  phone and talking on  the phone in stairways 
 Refrain from wearing  high heels and slippery  footwear 
 Follow instructions  when using trolleys 
 Non work-related  operations banned in  aisles NEW 
 Improved lighting and  enforced speed limits in  parking lots 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Environment Behavior 
Safety Committee regularly convenes for injury cases 
 Injury frequencies were calculated monthly and sent to the highest- ranking managers at each facility 
 Materials for annual safety and health education were amended to  include new regulations NEW 
 Maintained a reporting system 
Management  
Weekly poster campaigns will be launched to promote  
awareness among employees. To reduce work-related  
injuries, equipment maintenance zones and temporary  
storage zones will be reorganized and renovated.  
Manual carrying of items will be automated, and impact  
protection strips will be installed on the sides of trolleys.  
In 2020, TSMC will continue to put in place measures to  
prevent falls and collisions, raise safety awareness among  
employees, and review results through the Safety and  
Health Committee. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Create a safer workplace to  prevent falls and collisions 
 Equipment maintenance zones  and temporary storage zones  reorganized and renovated NEW 
 Lifting and carrying   automated  NEW 
 Fall-prone areas improved 
 Re ector labels installed NEW 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate by  Types of Injuries in 2019 
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate Disabling Severity Rate 
Fall 49% Sports  injury 1% 
Ergonomic injuries 
Sports injury 
Cut, scrape, puncture 
Ergonomic injuries 13% 
Collision 18% 
Cut, scrape,  puncture 4% 
Unit: % Unit: % 
Disabling Severity Rate by Types of  Injuries in 2019 
Ergonomic injuries 
Sports injury 
Cut, scrape, puncture 
Ergonomic  injuries 6% 
Collision 9% 
Sports  injury 
Work-related diseases and personal health issues  
undermine productivity and may signi cantly impact  
the company s operation. A comprehensive health  
management plan identi es health risks posed by work  
environments, takes responsive measures, prevents  
occupational diseases, and promotes physical and  
mental well-being among employees. 
Occupational Disease Prevention 
Moving beyond traditional approaches to occupational  
health, TSMC has been committed to building a safe  
and healthy work environment, where each work item  
is assessed to identify 5 major potential risks, including  
chemical, physical, ergonomic, biological, and social  
psychological risk factors, and to design preventive  
measures accordingly. To build a healthy workplace,  
TSMC enlisted external assistance in 2019 by inviting  
Professor Yi-Wen Luo from China Medical University and  
Peng-Chi Tsai from National Cheng Kung University to  
assess ergonomics risks and conduct chemicals analysis  
at working environments. Achievements Achievements 
Comprehensive Health  Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Preventative Measures   E cacy against Occupational Disease 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
New Measures Taken in 2019 New Measures Taken in 2019 
Permanent Measures Permanent Measures 
     Computerized ergonomic risk assessment systems are used to identify operations  with high-ergonomic risks. Health centers conduct questionnaire surveys, keep  track of employees who apply for pain relief patches, and provide necessary  support to employees requesting leave due to soreness and pain and arrange  interviews with occupational physicians. 
     Computerized assessments were conducted on 18 employees with above- average or below average heights (  190 cm or   150 cm). O ce chairs were  raised and foot mats were provided to maximize their comfort. Target employee  satisfaction rate stood at 100% 
     Ergonomic risk assessment form received 100% user satisfaction rate 
     6 operations with high ergonomic risks were identi ed and addressed 
     Manual lifting and carrying in 6-inch facilities, 8-inch facilities, and back-end  processes were automated, with satisfaction rate reaching 100% 
     An ergonomic risk assessment system was created for o ce and equipment  maintenance sta  
    The ergonomic risk assessment form was streamlined to ensure instant risk level  assessment 
    The risk of lifting and carrying heavy loads and equipment were proactively  assessed to ensure the physical well-being of employees in the Operations  organization. Every single high-risk operation was covered 
For further information, please refer to the o cial website of TSMC: TSMC  Introduces Ergonomics Engineering E-System to Build a Safe Workplace 
TSMC worked with experts to enhance its digital  ergonomic risk identi cation system A n exposure assessment model was created to control  and manage the use of chemicals 
Ergonomic Risk Factors Chemical Risk Factors 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
     Toxicological assessments of unknown substances were conducted in collaboration with  the National Health Research Institutes to provide valuable data for the development  of new processes, and create a standardized method for toxicological assessment and  testing to e ectively mitigate health risks 
     Similar Exposure Groups (SEGs) were identi ed. The properties, storage locations,  amounts, and equipment safety mechanisms of the chemicals they use were identi ed,  recorded, and put under risk assessment. Results showed low risk for all groups 
     Operations involving group 1 carcinogenic substances, teratogenic substances, and  substances that induce germline mutation are inspected by occupational physicians,  who provide suggestions for improvements. 
     The use of hazardous substances is rigorously controlled and managed. 
     Arsenic-exposed work zones were renovated and improved. 
     Chemical exposure risks in abrasive-blasting rooms were mitigated by requiring that the  fume hoods shall draw air at 36,000 liters per minute in addition to operating at a wind  speed of 0.5 meters per second. 
     Preventive measures against arsenic exposure were launched. 
     A "Toxicological assessment System for Unknown Substances" was built in  collaboration with the National Health Research Institutes. 
     A digital health risk assessment system was created. 
     A chemical exposure assessment system was created. 
(Continue on next page) 
(Continued from previous page) 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
New Measures Taken in 2019 New Measures Taken in 2019 New Measures Taken in 2019 
Permanent Measures Permanent Measures Permanent Measures 
Achievements 
     Promote employee assistance resources in the newcomer training  courses. Counseling service cards with related infomation are given to  all employees, and encourage them to use the counseling services  
     Psychologists are recruited to proactively provide care to employees  with high perceived stress levels, and referrals are arranged if necessary 
     Provide assistance to meet employees' needs 
     Provide lectures about psychological health 
     Psychological counseling services were provided to employees  with high perceived stress levels to help them cope with pressures.  Satisfaction rate stood at 95% 
     Perceived Stress Questionnaire was reviewed to con rm its validity in  identifying employees with high stress levels. 
Provide counseling services to employees who  feel high levels of pressure 
Social Psychological Risk Factors 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Achievements 
     Developing response protocols for collective food poisoning and food safety  management 
     Providing up-to-date information on seasonal  u and Dengue Fever 
     Any outbreak of communicable diseases domestically and abroad are closely  monitored, preventive measures for noti able diseases are being developed,  and the Disease Control Committee will convene whenever necessary 
     Employees on business trips to areas with disease outbreaks are briefed and  provided with disease prevention toolkits 
     A system for disinfection will be developed 
     Collective food poisoning drill scripts and response protocols were  developed for the four Kindergartens located in Hsinchu, Taichung, and  Tainan. Drills were conducted. 
     A total of 538 cases of noti able disease and non-noti able disease were  e ectively managed to contain spread. 
     A total of 239 disease prevention toolkits were distributed to employees  on o cial business trips. 
     A response plan for collective food poisoning in the TSMC Kindergarten  was created 
Updates from CDC are closely tracked to provide  employees with the latest health information 
Biological Risk Factors 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Achievements 
      Developing measurement systems for ionizing radiation levels to monitor  the radiation protection of all relevant equipment 
     Addressing noise issues in cleanrooms 
     Process equipment is tested for non-ionizing radiation levels every six months 
      Developing a management system for radioactive sources 
     All equipment tested normal for non-ionizing radiation levels. 
     Noise issues in cleanrooms improved. 
     No cases of radiation exposure. 
    A record of non-ionizing radiation levels of all relevant equipment  was created. Individuals with cardiac pacemakers were barred from  operating such equipment and warned before hire 
Physical Risk Factors 
Physical hazards are batter identi ed 
Assisting Employees in Health Management: Health Risk Management and Health Care 
Note: The  gure for special health examination management covers TSMC s Taiwan Facilities, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), VisEra, and Wafertech, while the remaining statistics cover only some of TSMC s subsidiaries Note: The  gures for Sports Centers and employee assistance program cover TSMC s Taiwan facilities, TSCM (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), VisEra, and Wafertech, while the remaining statistics cover only some of TSMC s subsidiaries 
Health Risk Management Health Care 
TSMC's occupational health risk management plan covers both  occupational hazards and personal health. Addressing both factors is  the key to employees' well-being 
Occupational Health Risk 
General Employee Health Care 48,699 employees 
Occupational Musculoskeletal  Disorder Prevention Plan 166 employees 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
High Stress Support Plan 994 employees 
Brain and Cardiovascular Disease  Prevention and Management Program 1,389 employees 
Maternal Health  Management Plan 670 employees 
Special Health Examination  Management  4,146 employees Note 
How Work-related It Is 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Health and Wellness Programs in 2019 51,386participants Note 
Assistance for Employees 3,125 users of the free  consulting service Note 
Exercise Center 178,296users Note 
Employees were o ered a supportive environment and a  variety of health care programs to maintain their well-being 
Employees were encouraged to exercise regularly. TSMC Sports Centers and all TSMC  facilities come with gyms, aerobics classrooms, and multifunctional ball courts to provide  employees with a supportive environment and multiple options for exercise. The services,  including swimming pools, yoga classes, and spinning bike classes, can be accessed by  employees and their dependents 
TSMC has long worked with professional psychologists to provide employees with  consulting services and help them deal with stress and mental issues 
12,458  users 
9,244 employees 
Cancer  Screening 
Health  Quizzes 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Physical    Mental Health  Lectures 
20,668 outpatients 
2,103  people  
Clinic  Services 
Weight Loss  Challenge 
1,041  participants 
5,872  users  
Massage  Service 
Brain   Cardiovascular Disease  Prevention and Management Program 
New Measure 
TSMC proactively manages the workload of employees according  to their health conditions to prevent cerebrovascular and  cardiovascular diseases. Since 2015, TSMC has conducted health  risk assessment and classi cation every year. In accordance with  the Guidelines on Prevention of Health Disorders Resulting from  Abnormal Workload, TSMC assesses employees  risk of developing  cardiovascular conditions within ten years(Framingham Point  Score), and in 2019, TSMC s Taiwan facilities began to o er  cerebrovascular and cardiovascular health analysis services  and worked with occupational physicians to develop a set of  screening criteria for medium and high risk employees. Screening  through questionnaires and work hour data, the team expanded  the plan to cover an additional 1,389 employees. Furthermore,  work hour monitoring was conducted every month instead of  every half year to better manage the health risks of employees.  A total of 2,586 employees were selected to receive support,  including health education, medical assistance, and advice from  physicians on how to manage work hours. 
Occupational doctor conducted health risk assessment and communication 
As it grows, TSMC exerts an ever greater in uence on  
societies and industries. Therefore, TSMC recognizes  
its obligations in creating a healthy workplace together  
with its vendors and contractors. Working proactively  
with external parties in 2019, TSMC learnt from others  
and shared its own experience in promoting safety and  
health in the workplace by o ering a variety of training  
programs. Through collaboration with partners in  
Internal-External Alliance 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Management  Measures 
Suggestions for  the Industry 
Sharing  Experiences  
Supply Chain 
academia, the public sector, and the private sector, TSMC  
spares no e ort in reducing safety and health risks at  
workplaces in its supply chains and of its contractors. 
Working with External Parties to  Optimize Work Environment 
Using the Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association  
as a platform, TSMC shares with other actors in the  
industry its experience in managing safety and health  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Enforce rigorous management of hazardous substances and help amend SEMI  Standards 
 Take part in the WSC's hazard substitution plan  
 Advice the government on behalf of CNFI, including passing laws that require raw  material suppliers to fully disclose the health hazards of their substances to the user 
 Work with OSHA to clarify regulations for work environment evaluation 
 Work with OSHA to require raw material suppliers to fully disclose information on  carcinogenic, teratogenic, and reprotoxic substances 
 Work with OSHA to enhance safety standards for robots, visit work environments  where robots are deployed, and conduct on-site testing of the safety of robots 
 Take part in government forums, including ones on occupational health risk  assessment 
 Take part in seminars held by the industry and share with industry peers TSMC's  experience in managing chemical substances 
 Accept invitation by APOSHO, National Yang Ming University, Chung Shan Medical  University, and Yuanpei University of Medical Technology to share TSMC's experience  in health risk management, strengthening safety in the supply chain, ergonomic and  exposure risk management, and chemicals management 
 O er training programs on workplace safety to supply chain partners 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
risks at the workplace. It also regularly attends the  
Joint Steering Committee ESH Working Group of the  
World Semiconductor Council on behalf of Taiwan s  
semiconductor industry to conduct exchange with  
overseas peers on occupational safety and health. In  
2019, TSMC worked with the Occupational Safety and  
Health Administration and the Institute of Environmental  
and Occupational Health Sciences of National Yang- 
Ming University to create capacity-building programs  
for TSMC s occupational health o cers. Focusing on  
chemical and ergonomic risk factors, the program  
developed advanced materials for on-the-job training  
and o ered practical courses in north, central, and  
south of Taiwan to enhance occupational health o cers   
capability to identify hazards and address problems,  
thereby building a safe and healthy workplace.  
I would like to express my sincere  gratitude to TSMC for sharing with  us their experience in protecting  the well-being of employees and  promoting active management of  chemicals in Taiwan s businesses.  During the course of our joint project,  I was deeply impressed by TSMC s  commitment to the safety and health  of its employees. 
Mei-Lien Chen 
Distinguished professor at the Institute of  Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences  of National Yang-Ming University and chairperson of  Taiwan Occupational Hygiene Association 
Raise Contractors  Awareness on Health Risk through Better Hazard Notices 
Contractors under high risk of chemical exposure  
were identified through analyses on risks of  
chemical exposures and the frequency and nature of  
their operations. 3% of contractors were identified  
as high risk bearers, and TSMC has been committed  
to reducing their risks of developing occupational  
diseases as a result of exposure to chemicals. In  
2019, contractors registered higher Disabling Injuries  
Frequency Rate (FR) and Disabling Severity Rate  
(SR) than the previous year because two contractors  
were injured by electrical shocks, resulting in a  
total of 462 work days lost. In the aftermath of the  
Note: The  gures cover TSMC s Taiwan Facilities 
Education Programs for Contractors 
Safety and health training Protection gear training for on-site contractors that work with chemicals 
On-site contractors that work with chemicals are asked to attend TSMC's annual emergency drill 
 1,998  2,680  1,891  2,355  2,011 
2016 2015 2017 2018 2019 
124 205  778  1,147  1,334 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
incident, TSMC enhanced preventive measures  
against electrical shocks and included operations  
with risks of electrical shocks into the category of  
high risk operations. Following the US National  
Electrical Code, the company developed rules for  
the use of protective gears in operation involving arc  
flash and live-line, and incorporated those rules into  
The Blue Book on Environmental Safety and Health  
for Contractors. In addition, a security guard died  
on duty due to cerebrovascular and cardiovascular  
conditions, resulting in 6,000 work days lost. TSMC  
has thoroughly investigated the incident and found  
 19,889  21,749 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
New Contractors 
Legally required by  regulation 
Existing  Contractors 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Disabling Injuries in Contractors 
that the work hours of TSMC s security personnel  
are in compliance with government regulations.  
However, in response to the incident, TSMC will  
further strengthen training and occupational  
safety awareness for security personnel working  
in factories. We hope to remind our security  
personnel to look out for any signs of fatigue and  
take necessary precautions. Starting in 2020, we will  
also be launching a Care Program to support TSMC s  
cleaning staff, canteen workers, truck drivers, and  
other employees from contractors. 
Note: The  gures cover TSMC s Taiwan Facilities 
Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR) 
Disabling Severity Rate (SR) 
0.03 0.03 0.1 
2017 2018 2019 
New Measures in 2019 
Permanent Measures 
Achievements 
     The Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR) and  Disabling Severity Rate (SR) of contractors are  analyzed to inform responsive measures. Safety  training and outreach for contractors are being  improved. Contractors are required to follow  standard protocols and procedures.  
     Zero reported cases of abnormal health  examination results. 
     On-site contractors are guaranteed zero risk of  chemical exposure in TSMC premises. 
     Contractors are ensured easy access to safety and  health management procedures. 
     The Blue Book on Environmental Safety and Health  for Contractors was created 
     Reporting of abnormal results from special health  examinations: Contractors are required to report  to TSMC any abnormal results from special health  examinations that can be attributed to work-related  causes according to the Labor Health Protection Act. 
     TSMC dispatched its occupational physicians to  inspect the operations on on-site contractors and  analyze their risks of chemical exposure. 
Working with Supply Chain Partners  to Achieve Sustainable Development 
TSMC has conducted safety and health on-site  
inspection on suppliers and o ered guidance whenever  
needed. During 2017 and 2019, TSMC worked with the  
Occupational Safety and Health Administration and  
Associate professor Yu-Wen Lin from the Department  
of Public Health of the Medical College of Fu-Jen  
Catholic University in carrying out the Supply Chain  
Occupational Health Promotion Program. The joint  
task force co-inspected 37 TSMC suppliers in  elds  
including parts wafer cleaning, pump repair, chemicals  
supply, and recycling, and provided instant feedback  
for improvements. Common challenges faced by similar  
businesses were identi ed, and their solutions, including  
ventilation system maintenance, respiratory protection  
plan, and dermal protection practices, were incorporated  
into education programs. Furthermore, TSMC sought to  
enhance the capabilities of safety o cers to identify and  
address problems. In education programs, therefore,  
lectures were gradually replaced with interactive  
discussions to help vendors develop the capacity to  
proactively improve their environments. 
In addition, TSMC organized in 2019 a conference on  
ISO 45001 Certi cation for Occupational Safety and  
Health Management System in collaboration with the  
Industrial Technology Research Institute to help vendors  
and contractors alike improve their management of  
occupational safety and health. In the conference,  
high risk contractors were introduced to management  
strategies, aided in conducting self-inspections on their  
work environments, and instructed to become ISO 45001  
certi ed by 2021. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Construction  rms under contract with TSMC for fab  
construction are fully responsible for managing the  
construction site. To ensure the safety of the workforce,  
TSMC works with contractors to build a safe working  
environment and strengthen the management of  
construction sites. Thus, a three level management  
system by builders, the Construction Site Safety  
Committee, and TSMC is in place to ensure the safety of  
workers on site.  
Based on the occupational hazards speci ed in Article 6  
of Occupational Safety and Health Act, TSMC identi ed 34  
high-risk construction contractors and conducted  Safety  
Construction Safety Management 
Enhancing Safety Management at Construction Sites Managed by Contractors 
TSMC and the Management Teams of Constructors 
 Authorizing Safety O cers with the Right to Supervise  and Manage 
Safety O cers and Construction  Supervisors from Construction  rm 
Supervising Their Own Workers 
Safety Supervisors Independently Recruited  by the Safety Committee 
Supervising All Workers  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Construction  Company 1 Construction  Company 2 Construction  Company N 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Construction Projects TSMC 
management Assessment for High Risk Constructors  on  
all of them. Then, TSMC interviewed the management of  
each of those contractors to ensure that they understood  
their responsibilities as speci ed by Occupational Safety  
and Health Act, and oversaw their improvement by  
requiring them to sit on the Safety and Health Committee.  
At the same time, on-site workers were granted the right  
to suspend work if necessary. 
Furthermore, contractors are required to obtain ISO  
45001 Certi cation for Occupational Safety and Health  
Management System. Of the contractors identi ed as  
high risk bearers, 33 have become certi ed, and all  
Construction Safety Committee 
 Supervisor 
 Construction Safety Engineer 
 Environmental Safety Engineer 
 Electricity Use Engineer 
will be certi ed by the end of 2020. In 2020, TSMC will  
enlist the support of external experts and launch an  
incentive program for construction safety. Experts will  
be invited to inspect the safety policies, oversight, and  
auditing systems of TSMC s contractors and provide  
constructive suggestions for improvement. A monetary  
incentive award will be o ered to encourage  rm  
execution of safety policies and enhance contractor s  
ability to self-manage. 
For further information, please refer to the o cial website  of TSMC: To Ensure Construction Safety, TSMC Enhances  Construction Contractors  Capability for Autonomous  Management of Safety and Health 
Contractors are required to obtain  certi cation for their occupational  safety and health management  system 
Construction sites are inspected,  infractions and de ciencies are  identi ed, and improvement  measures are supervised. 
Contractors are required to maintain  rigorous supervision on their  construction operations and enhance  the capabilities of their safety o cers  through e ective training programs. 
Measures for Construction Safety and Results in 2019 
Inspecting Construction Sites  Managed by Contractors, Supervising  Improvement Measures, and  Implementing Preventive Practices 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Requiring Contractors to Develop  Occupational Safety and Health  Management System 
Ensuring Rigorous Oversight of  Construction Operations and Enhancing  the Capabilities of Safety Officers 
 Construction personnel were required to undergo safety training  before being granted work permits. 
 Personnel who violate safety protocols will have their work permit  suspended or revoked. In the latter case, workers must pass safety  training again before their permit can be restored. 
 Facial recognition systems were installed to record the identities,  numbers, and duration of stay of all incoming personnel. 
 The number of safety supervisors were increased  1 15 
 Contractors were inspected on 9 major categories. Penalties and  deadlines for improvement were set in a manner consistent with  the levels of infractions. 
 34 construction  rms in contract with TSMC identi ed as high risk  bearers were required to gain ISO 45001 certi cation 
Measures Achievements 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
If construction personnel were found  overworking, contractors were asked  to improve their compliance with the  Labor Standards Act 
All Relevant Personnel  Underwent Construction  Safety Education 
The rest expected to become  certi ed in 2020 
Certi ed Contractors 
Infraction Rate 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Double hook safety harness training Daily toolbox safety meeting   announcing safety regulations Facial recognition system and   entry control 
Fall prevention training for personnel working in  elevated environments 
Safety Training for  Construction Workers 
Head impact simulation 
Common Good 
Power to Change Society 
To pursue the goal of building a better society, the TSMC Education and Culture  Foundation and TSMC Charity Foundation serve as focal points for funds,  materials, and people from inside and outside TSMC to devote resources towards  cultivation of youths, culture and arts, environmental awareness, caring for the  disadvantaged and rural education. We hope to drive the development of society  with kindness, passing on the power of love and prospect. 
42,462 People 
Hosted 61 TSMC Hsinchu Art Festivals, with a total of 42,462 participants 
5,152 Million (NT ) 
Invested NT 51.52 million to inspire youth s interest in humanities and science 
9,527 Services 
O ered 9,527 services to elder people living alone through the Network of  Love, and taught  lial piety at 37 educational institutions 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
The Drive for  Common Good 
    UN Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) 
    TSMC Corporate Social  Responsibility Policies 
    Social Needs 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Protect the  Environment 
Care for the  Educationally  Disadvantaged 
Promote Filial  Piety 
Diversi ed  Education  Platform 
Promote Arts  and Culture 
Take care of  Elders Living  Alone 
Program Scholarship, Chia Start Program Scholarship,  
South Star Program Scholarship 
 Hope Reading 2.0 
 Aesthetic education and science tours 
 Sunrise Scholarship, Sun ower Scholarship, New Star  
 Educationally disadvantaged students 
 Collaborate with food companies to o er Fresh Goodwill Products 
 Provided environmental protection education and resources in events held  by volunteers to promote energy conservation and ecological protection 
Care for the  Disadvantaged 
 NPOs, social welfare organizations, disadvantaged  groups, schools, students, and Tainan Jacana  Ecology Education Park 
 ATCC Case Competition 
 TSMC Youth Calligraphy and Seal Carving Awards 
 TSMC Youth Literature Awards 
 TSMC Literature Awards 
 TSMC Science Fun Fair for Teens 
Target Groups and Measures Social Impact 
 High school and university students 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Collaborate with governments, elementary schools, and the media to promote  lial piety 
 Hold  lial piety family events 
 Volunteers share stories about  lial piety on campus 
 Elementary schools, the public, and TSMC sta  
 TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festival 
 TSMC Lectures 
 Mr. Hsien-Yung Pai's New Kunqu Classic Series 
 Arts and cultural groups and local residents Foster outstanding arts and  cultural groups in Taiwan Enhance the environment of  local arts and culture in society 
 Establish Love Program Networking and collaborate with medical institutions  to assist in supplying medical resources and daily necessities 
 Donate medical equipment to make up for the shortage of medical resources 
 O er volunteering services 
 Low-income elders living alone 
 Improve education in rural  areas with technology 
 Host online teacher training 
 Introduce remote schools to  coding  diversify educational  resources for the disadvantaged 
 The disadvantaged 
Foundation After School Class Project 
 Sponsor Teach for Taiwan 
 Sponsor Junyi Academy 
 Sponsor BOYO Social Welfare  
 16-Year-Old Festival x TSMC Youth  Theater Project 
 TSMC Youth Dream Building Project 
 Wu Ta-you Science Camp 
 Wu Chien-Shiung Science Camp 
 Madame Curie Chemistry Camp 
 Provide emergency aid 
 Repair houses for the disadvantaged to  maintain their basic living standards 
 Reading volunteers regularly travel to serve in  remote areas 
Bridge the rural-urban  educational gap  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Reduce environmental  impacts brought by  energy consumption Raise awareness  among students and  the public regarding  environmental  protection 
Cultivate scienti c  literacy and humanity  appreciation among  youth 
Raise awareness of   lial piety among  young generations  
TSMC expects itself to be a driver for social progress. To achieve this goal, TSMC operates  
Improve the welfare  of elders living alone 
according to its CSR Policy and aligns its core business with SDGs. In addition, TSMC is attentive  
Improve the welfare  of elders living  alone 
towards society s needs and works to reduce resource gaps between rural and urban areas  
through public welfare activities, aiming to give back to society and achieve the goal of  
common good. 
The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation promotes diversi ed education by  
focusing on education for disadvantaged youth and providing students with  
various platforms outside of the formal education system. TSMC is also sowing  
the seeds of culture and humanities so that a love for the arts can take root in  
society, working towards the goal of SDG 4   Quality Education.  
NT 264,036,716  
Note: Our social investments include endeavors made by the Company (e.g. University  Collaboration Programs, etc.), TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, TSMC Charity  Foundation, TSMC employees (volunteer service and charity donations) and the  Employee Welfare Committee 
Community  Investments  Commercial  Initiatives  
Moreover, the TSMC Charity Foundation is committed to long-term  
volunteer service. In order to realize the targets of SDG 1, 3 and 4,  
In-kind  Giving 
Management  Overheads Cash  Contribution 
NT 21,769,445 
which cover No Poverty, Good Health and Well-being, and Quality  
Education respectively, the foundation serves the disadvantaged  
as well as seniors living alone, promotes  lial piety and values  
environmental protection. 
Our Social Investments 
584,820,008  
Motive for Contribution 
How We Contributed   
Charitable  Donations   
NT 130,433,347 
NT 168,590,500 
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Care for the Educationally Disadvantaged 
Cooperate with educational organizations from both the public and the private sectors, aiming to narrow the gap in education resources between urban and rural areas 
Diversi ed Education Platform 
Continue to hold humanities and science events so as to provide youth with various platforms outside the educational system 
Promote Arts and Culture 
Periodically hold art festivals at TSMC s fab sites in Hsinchu, Taichung and Tainan, so as to foster talented local art groups and promote exquisite  ne arts in the community 
Continuously collaborate with public and private  educational organizations and provide no less than  NT 12 million in resources annually 
Collaborate with educational organizations to hold  humanities and science competitions, with at least  600 participants each 
Sponsor 10 outstanding local artists or groups The TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festival held 61 performances, inviting seven local groups and two foreign musicians, attracting  42,462 participants in total Target:  ve groups or artists 
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
In addition to the Sunrise Scholarship at the National Tsing Hua University and the Sun ower Scholarship at the National  Central University, the TSMC Foundation increased the scholarship to three more universities in Southern Taiwan and  providing a total of NT 5.5 million in scholarship to 55 underprivileged students in 2019. The newly added Universities are  National Cheng Kung University, National Sun Yat-sen University, and National Chung Cheng University in 2019 Target: three additional universities 
    TSMC Youth Calligraphy and Seal-Carving Competition with total  of 695 participants 
    Hosting the Youth Literature Award for 16 consecutive years and  has received 704 submissions in total 
    Sponsored the 17 th ATCC Case Competition entitled  Usage  100%  as the topic of the competition , attracting 540 groups of  students from 52 universities to register NEW 
Target: Increase the number of youth event participants each year 
TSMC Lectures held four humanities lectures themed the Past and Present of Ethnic Minorities in China Target: Organize at least four TSMC Lectures 
Youth events and competitions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
    Held the  fth TSMC Novella Award and received 150 submissions 
    Held the fourth TSMC Youth Dream Building Project entitled   Cities applied with the Waste Reduction Formula . The event  focused on environmental issues and attracted 89 groups of  students from 21 universities from the Taoyuan, Hsinchu, Miaoli  and Tainan areas to participate 
O er scholarships for underprivileged  students to  ve universities  
    Ensure the number of youth event  participants is higher than the  previous year 
    Hold at least three popular  semiconductor science activities and  semiconductor science camps 
    Organize at least 15 humanities lectures  in college 
    Continuously organize at least four  TSMC Lectures 
    Continuously Organize the TSMC Hsin- Chu Art Festivals and sponsor at least  ve  talented local artists or groups annually 
In 2019, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  
contributed over NT 96.99 million into three main  
areas: Care for Educationally Disadvantaged,  
Diversi ed Education Platform, and Promote Arts  
and Culture. The contribution amount has increased  
26% compared to 2018. In addition to cooperate with  
schools and NGOs to narrow the urban-rural gap in  
educational resources, in 2019, the Foundation have  
focused on creating diversi ed education platforms  
and hoping to cultivate young talent for the future.  
Sponsorship by the TSMC Education and  Culture Foundation in 2019 
Total: 96.69 Million (NT ) 
Other:  administrative  expenses Diversi ed  Education  Platform 53% 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Care for  Educationally  Disadvantaged 16% Others 9% 
Promote Arts  and Culture 22% 
At the meantime, the Foundation also organized  
and sponsored various art events to provide a stage  
for talented artists and outstanding art groups, and  
hoping to enrich the local communities  spiritual life  
toward a good and better society. 
Sponsorship from the TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation  between 2015 and 2019 Unit: NT  ten thousand 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
For further information about the events and the implementation  status of sponsorships, please refer to the o cial website of the  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Core Services 
Care for the Educationally  Disadvantaged 
Diversi ed Education  Platform 
Promote Arts and Culture 
   TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festival 
   Sponsored the Formosa New Year's Concert 
   TSMC Lectures  
   Sponsored Mr. Hsien-Yung Pai's New Kunqu  Classic Series 
 Sponsored ATCC Case Competition 
 TSMC Youth Dream Building Project 
 Calligraphy and Literature Contests 
 Sponsored Renovations for the World of  Semiconductors at the National Museum  of Natural Science 
 Invigorating the Arts Environment and Providing  a Platform for Exhibits and Performances 
 Promoting Humanities Classics 
 Initiated a Media Survey for Taiwan's New  12-year Compulsory Education Curriculum 
 Additional Scholarships for Educationally  Disadvantaged College Students 
 Continuously Supporting Hope Reading 2.0 
Care for Educationally  Disadvantaged 
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
The Foundation has long been caring for educational issues since its  establishment. In 2019, TSMC contributed NT 15.63 million and  collaborated with educational organizations from both the private and  public sectors, aiming to increase interest in learning for educationally  disadvantaged students and improve their studies. In addition, with  scholarships, the Foundation has successfully assisted outstanding but  disadvantaged students in pursuing higher education in universities to  shorten the gap in educational resources between urban and rural areas 
How We  Respond 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Media Survey Initiative for the New 12-year  Compulsory Education Curriculum 
 Expand Scholarships for Disadvantaged College  Students 
 Continuously Supporting Hope Reading 2.0 
Our  Actions 
A widening academic achievement  gap between rural and urban  students due to the urban  rural  divide, social structures, and  disparities in educational resources 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
What We  Want to    Solve 
Recipients of the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  Scholarships  Unit: Recipients 
The New 12-year Compulsory Education Curriculum took  
e ect in the 2019 academic year, the Foundation, having  
long cared for technology and rural education, launched  
a media survey with the United Daily News-Vision Project  
targeting teachers and students from 1,500 junior and senior  
high schools to understand teacher s needs and o er advice  
for government policies. Designed to understand teachers,  
teaching materials, and software   hardware, the sampling  
survey also included industry insight from our R D vice  
president and information department directors. Conducted  
through phones, the internet, and fax, the survey received  
830 valid questionnaires from 1,033 schools and revealed two  
major challenges in most schools: (1) cultivating and recruiting  
science   technology teachers and  (2) procuring classrooms  
and hardware. Future literacy programs will be based on  
survey results. 
Media Survey Initiative for the New 12- year Compulsory Education Curriculum  
Sunrise Program Scholarship  Recipients at NTHU 
Chia Star Program Scholarship  Recipients at NCCU 
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 103 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Sun ower Program Scholarship  Recipients at NCU 
South Star Program Scholarship  Recipients at NSYSU 
Expand Scholarships for Disadvantaged  College Students 
In 2019, we sponsored the NTHU Sunrise Scholarship and the NCU  
Sun ower Scholarship but expanded to sponsor the NCKU New  
Star Scholarship, the NSYSU South Star Scholarship, and the CCU  
Chia Star Scholarship. A total of NT 5.5 million scholarship has been  
o ered to 55 college students , and was increased 82% compared  
to last year. Our scholarships ease  nancial burdens, o er life    
academic support, and help students focus in school. Such students  
are also invited to our art events to nurture art literacy. 
The Total Number of  Scholarship Recipients 
Cheng Star Program Scholarship  Recipients at NCKU 
I would like to thank the  Foundation for the South Star  Scholarship, through reducing my  family s  nancial burdens, I have  been allowed to focus in school  instead of taking part-time jobs.  It motivates me to work harder to  enrich myself and strive to help  students-in-need. 
A South Star Scholarship recipient from the  Oceanography Department at National Sun  Yat-sen University 
Continuously Supporting Hope Reading 2.0 
In 2019, the Foundation worked with the CommonWealth Education Foundation on  
the Hope Reading Program. Each year, 100 best books are recommended and donated  
to 200 elementary and junior high schools in rural areas. The program also includes  
an Elementary School Writing Contest, a Middle School In-Depth Report Contest, an  
International Reading Education Forum and a Reading Mobile Library   Cloud Professor  
Project. Up to 15,641 people have been bene ted from the program. 
Encourages students to make a habit  out of reading, writing and public  speaking. The 2019 contest entitled  I really want to tell you received 225  submissions, which was 114 more  than last year. There were 30 students  receiving awards 
The Young Authors Writing  Contest for Elementary  School Students  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Encourages junior high school students  to learn ways of collecting, interpreting  and analyzing data. Through this  experience, they can eventually present  their research results with their team  members. The 2019 competition  entitled I really want to tell you  attracted students from 11 junior high  schools in rural areas to participate.  The event lasted for 2 days and  included an eco-tour of Tamsui River 
15,641 People 
benefited from the Hope Reading  program 
The Junior High  School Feature Article  Competition  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
The forum entitled Reading and the  Future invited experts from Taiwan  and abroad to share how to increase  students' digital reading ability  through education and attracted  516 participants of teachers from  elementary schools, junior high  schools and senior high school 
International Reading  Education Forum 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
features four vans carrying selected new  books and the Acer Cloud Professor IoT  Starter Kit. The Mobile Library went to  103 elementary schools in Taiwanese  rural areas, benefiting around 6,100  students 
200 Schools 
100 best books are recommended and  donated to 200 elementary and junior  high schools in rural areas 
Reading Mobile Library    Cloud Professor Project  
Section Director of Tan Nan Elementary School 
We don t have a lot of books at our  school. However, because of the  reading mobile library , students  have more books and they like  reading more than ever. 
We can feel  that the Foundation works hard  on promoting local cultures and civic  values. Before participating in the event,  students seldom expressed what they  were thinking. However, because of this  competition, they know they can be stars if  they work hard enough. Therefore, I want  to thank the foundation for providing this  opportunity. 
Supervisor of Bei-Mei Junior High School in Nantou 
Ms. Huang Yu-Han 
Ms. Hsu Shu-Hui 
Diversi ed Education  Platform 
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
In 2019, TSMC had contributed  NT 51.52 million on diversi ed  contests, camps, scholarships and  guidance services for students, which aim  to help students to explore their life paths  and pursue their dreams 
How We  Respond 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 ATCC Case Competition Sponsor 
 TSMC Youth Dream Building Project 
 Calligraphy and Literature Contests 
 Renovation Donations to the World  of Semiconductors at the National  Museum of Natural Science 
Our  Actions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Help Young People with literature  in the humanity and sciences   Provide Opportunities to Young  People and Broaden Their Horizons 
What We  Want to    Solve 
ATCC Camp with more than  1,000 participants 
In 2019, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  
represented TSMC to support the ATCC Case Competition  
entitled Usage 100%, which called on young people to  
care for society by encouraging them to put forward  
original ideas and business models related to reducing  
tangible and intangible waste. The competition attracted  
540 groups of students from 52 universities and 51  
groups were selected to be on the TSMC Team. The  
team was led by TSMC sta  who shared their  rst-hand  
experiences with the team. These students were trained  
on presentation skills, proposal writing,  nancial plans,  
and implementation plans. In the end, the Package Plus  
team was selected to represent TSMC to attend the  nal  
round of competition and won second place. Team leader  
of Package Plus, Allen Yeh, a graduate student from the  
Department of International Business, National Chengchi  
ATCC Case Competition Sponsor 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Representative Team  Package Plus  Won Second Place in the ATCC Competition 
University, further established a social enterprise based  
on this proposal, helping drive a positive social change  
through executing their innovation and ideals. 
3 Million (NT ) 
TSMC Youth Dream Building  Project Scholarship 
TSMC Youth Dream Building Project 
The fourth Youth Dream Building Project was held in  
2019 and students from Tainan were invited to submit  
their projects for the  rst time. To attract more students,  
The Foundation held 3 campus introductory meetings  
at Yuan Ze University, National Tsing Hua University, and  
National Cheng Kung University, and invited winning  
teams from the past to share their experience to inspire  
innovation in students. The competition was divided  
into an Open Group and a Theme Group. There were 89  
groups of students from 21 universities from the Taoyuan,  
Hsinchu, Miaoli, and Tainan regions participating in  
this competition and 7 of them were selected into  
the  nal. Their topics covered independent media,  
academic blockchains, international a airs, caring for  
the educationally disadvantaged, plastic reduction, and  
more. Total awards reached NT 3 million.  
For more details, please refer to TSMC CSR website: 
Team Fabridge of TSMC Youth Dream Building Project  
Shows Creativity, Reusing 1,645 Yards of Leftover Fabrics 
Click to Watch Videos of the third Youth Dream Building  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
21 Universities 
participated in the TSMC Youth  Dream Building Project 
In order to expand the scope of in uence of their  
projects, the TSMC Foundation invited previous winners  
of the Youth Dream Building Project to the TSMC Sports  
Day for further interaction with TSMC employees. From  
using waste fabric to make the relay team uniform by  
Team  Fabridge  , the Indigo dying DIY activities by  
Team  Hakka Blue , the Dough  gurine craft for  nger  
rehabilitation by Team  Angles  and shopping bag  
transformed from old clothes and waste fabric by Team  
 The Bag master, the TSMC Foundation provided these  
youths the opportunity to realize their dreams but also  
o ered our employees the chance to experience the  
creativity and energy of a younger generation. 
Fourth Youth Dream Building Project Finals 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
With the Youth  Dream Building Project, we had the  opportunity to contribute to society and  the environment. Fabric that would have  been thrown away of was repurposed into team  uniforms at the TSMC Sports Day. Fashion design  students were also able to practice with waste  fabric. We ve truly experienced the positive impacts  on society that this project holds. 
CFO of Team  Fabridge  
Joyce Tsai 
Rebag, previous winner of the Youth Dream  Building Project, advocating for shopping  bags made from old clothes and waste  fabric at the TSMC Sports Day 
Calligraphy and Literature Contests 
The TSMC Foundation organized diversi ed contests  
in the liberal arts to encourage young children to study  
literature and calligraphy, o er a stage for them to shine,  
and enrich artistic and cultural literacy. 
Calligraphy Awards   Professor Chi an-lang Lee Explaining the  Character  Longevity  on a Carved Window 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
695Participants 
The 12 th TSMC Youth Calligraphy  and Seal-Carving Competition 
    The  fth TSMC Novella Award to encourage participating writers to compose Chinese novellas and attracting over 150  manuscripts from writers in Taiwan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, and Malaysia. 
    The 16 th TSMC Youth Literature Award with the theme "A Dialogue with the Future" and receiving over 740 submission In  addition to the contest, 14 Literature Award winners were invited to share the stories of their  rst encounters with works  of three Taiwanese poets   Yu Kwang-chung, Luo Fu, and Chou Meng-tieh and their own creative journey. 
    The 12 th TSMC Youth Calligraphy and Seal-Carving Competition with the theme "Architecture and Chinese Characters",  and receiving 695 participants in total. An Opening walking tour event- "Historical House Tour   the Beauty of Words"  was organized, to show our young friends a di erent way of appreciating architectural beauty through calligraphy. 
In 2019, the TSMC Foundation organized the following contests: 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
2019 Events and Contests  
Senior high school and  senior vocational school  students 
TSMC Youth  Literature Award 
Encourage young  students to write short  stories, new poetry, and  prose 
Annual Biannual Category including: Seal Script , Clerical Script, and Regular Script  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Chinese resided in Taiwan  or abroad below the age  of 40  
Encourage young  writers in Taiwan and  Mainland China to  write novellas 
TSMC Novella  Award 
Category including: Semi Cursive Script   Cursive Script  
Quali cation: Senior high school students, senior vocational school students,  
and freshmen, sophomores, and juniors in  ve-year junior colleges 
Seal-carving Category 
Quali cation: Students from senior high schools, senior vocational  
schools, colleges, and universities  and contestants below the age of forty 
Calligraphy Imitation Category 
Quali cation: Students from middle schools, senior high schools, senior  
vocational schools, colleges, and universities 
TSMC Calligraphy and Seal-Carving  Competition 
Encourage high school students to learn  calligraphy and seal-carving 
Calligraphy Workshop at  Pingtung Girls  High School  
Students (graduate  students included) of  colleges and universities  from Taoyuan, Hsinchu,  Miaoli, and Tainan 
Encourage students  to act on their  creativity and pursue  their dreams 
Youth Dream  Building Project 
Semiconductors, and the Future of Semiconductors. The updated exhibit will employ new techniques  
to Semiconductors, Applications of Semiconductors, Progression of Semiconductors, Innovative  
such as gesture interaction and a mix of the real and virtual. Volunteers from the TSMC Charity Foundation  
will also o er tour services, introducing the public to the science behind semiconductors and industry  
trends while inspiring interest among young students. 
The World of Semiconductors at the National Museum of Natural Science Introduction to Semiconductors   Introduction Video Semiconductors Everywhere 
Renovation Donations to the World of Semiconductors at the National  Museum of Natural Science 
To promote popular science education and cultivate future talent for the semiconductor industry,  
the TSMC Foundation sponsored the National Museum of Natural Science in setting up the World of  
Integrated Circuits in 1997. The exhibit was renamed in 2011 to the World of Semiconductors. In order  
to keep up with rapidly-changing technologies and ensure that the exhibit is up-to-date, the TSMC  
Foundation donated NT 40 million in 2019 to renovate the exhibit into  ve sections   Introduction  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
40 Million (NT ) 
TSMC Foundation donated  NT 40 million in 2019 to  renovate  ve sections of the  exhibit 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Education and Culture Foundation 
Promote Arts and  Culture 
Committed NT 21.63 million  in 2019 to organize high-quality  art   culture exhibits and  performances such as Chinese  opera and concerts 
How We  Respond 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Supporting   Creating a Space for the Arts 
 Promote Humanities Classics 
   TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festival 
   Sponsored the Formosa New Year's Concert 
   TSMC Lectures  
   Sponsored Mr. Hsien-Yung Pai's New Kunqu  Classic Series 
Our  Actions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Liven the performing environment  for art and culture, support local  art and cultural groups, and enrich  the spiritual life of residents in the  community 
What We  Want to    Solve 
Theater. The TSMC Foundation sponsored 7 local art groups  
Taipei Quyituan s Crazy about Xiangsheng as part of Theater. 
series of arts and cultural performances   Poetry, Music, and  
by world-famous Polish pianist, Krystian Zimerman, and  
legendary blind Japanese pianist, Nobuyuk Tsujii, as part  
of Music  and a spiritual feast for our community with the  
GuoGuang Opera Company s The Painting of 18 Arhats and  
and 2 international musicians in a total of 61 performances  
that attracted over 42,462 participants. Programs included an  
exhibit on the works of Yu Kwang-chung, Luo Fu, and Chou  
Meng-tieh as part of Poetry  beautiful musical performances  
Supporting   Creating a Space for the Arts 
TSMC Hsin-Chu Art Festival 
The TSMC Foundation has been holding the Hsin-Chu Art  
Festival for 17 consecutive years, with each year revolving  
around a di erent theme. Major art events are held  
regularly in Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan to help the  
public experience the beauty of art and make a tangible  
contribution to the community s spiritual life. 
The theme for 2019 was Listen to the Muses, featuring three  
Poetry   Students and Teachers from the Taichung Municipal Special Education  School for the Hearing Impaired Visit the Promise 2061 Art Installation Exhibit Art-sharing at Huei-ming School (A special school for visually impaired students) 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Education   Culture Foundation  Supports Local   International Art Groups 
Note: Data from 1998 to 2019 
Taiwanese Groups 81  
Total  Groups 318 
International  Groups 19  
Formosa New Year s Concert Sponsor 
In 2019, the TSMC Foundation sponsored the One Song  
Orchestra for its  rst ever major outdoor concert, the  
2019 Formosa New Year s Concert. The concert included  
Taiwanese opera, Hakka songs, aboriginal music, campus  
folk songs, Taiwanese pop songs, and also witnessed  
collaborations with many famous performers, creating a  
new year s feast that is uniquely in Taiwan. With melodies  
well-known to the Taiwanese public, the concert  
attracted an audience of 3,000 and the feed was viewed  
over 800,000 times. 
Formosa New Year s Concert Live 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Formosa New Year's Concert 800  
Thousand  Online Views 
TSMC Lectures 
Since 2014, the TSMC Foundation has held the TSMC  
Lectures to promote humanities classics from the East  
and West. The theme for 2019 was Eastern Civilization  
and Dr. Ming-Ke Wang, a Fellow of Academia Sinica,  
was invited to speak on Ethnicity, Myth, and History:  
the Past and Present of Ethnic Minorities in China using  
archaeological and anthropological studies to detail  
how the Yi, Rong, Man, and Di peoples became ethnic  
minorities in present day China. The four lectures were  
well-received and all welcomed a full audience. 
TSMC Lectures held in the TsingHua  Hall of Fame 
Promote Humanities Classics 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Sponsor to Mr. Hsien-Yung Pai s New  Kunqu Classic Series 
The TSMC Foundation is devoted to promote traditional  
arts and culture. In 2019, the Foundation sponsored  
famed author, Mr. Hsien-Yung Pai, for a tour of his new  
Kunqu series including The Story of Golden Lotus and  
The Jade Hairpin. Kunqu, a form of traditional Chinese  
Opera , is recognized by UNESCO as an Intangible  
Cultural Heritage of Humanity. In order to help preserve  
the precious cultural asset and allow it to grow, the  
Foundation is sponsoring performances and also o ering  
Kunqu lectures in schools. 450 students from Hsinchu  
and Taichung, where TSMC facilities are located, were  
invited to enjoy the performances to introduce the  
younger generation to the beauty of Kunqu. 
from Hsinchu and Taichung  enjoyed the Kunqu performance 450 Students  
Strategies   2030 Goals 2019 Achievements 2020 Targets 
Care for the Disadvantaged 
We o er living and educational support to the disadvantaged through book reading, community , and corporate volunteers We care about inequality of educational resources   emergency aid in Taiwan and o er support when necessary 
Take Care of Elder People Living Alone 
We work with hospitals across Taiwan through the Network of Love system and provide a variety of medical resources to support medical care for elder people living alone 
Promote Filial Piety 
We collaborate with the Ministry of Education, schools, media, and other enterprises to promote  lial piety education at schools 
Environmental Protection  
We aim to reduce waste through the Cherish Food Program. We also promote environmental protection and energy conservation through our energy-saving volunteers, eco-volunteers, and corporate volunteers 
Donate at least NT 18 million to the disadvantaged each year Donated NT 13.21 million  to the disadvantaged Target: NT 10 million Donate at least NT 11 million to the disadvantaged 
Help over 10,000 children in remote areas New NEW The remote education program helped over 1,400 children Target: NEW 
Environmental protection volunteers provide over 1,200 services  each year Environmental protection volunteers provided 770 services Note 
Provide more than 10,000 hours of reading service each year Reading service exceeded 8,400 hours  Target: 8,000 hours Provide more than 8,500 hours of reading service 
Provide 12,000 service visits to elder people living alone through  Network of Love O ered 9,527 services to elder people living alone  Target: 9,000 services O er 10,000 services through the Network of Love 
Promote  lial piety education in 120 educational institutions Promoted  lial piety education in 37 educational institutions  Target: 35 Promote  lial piety education in 50 educational institutions 
Over 50,000 annual cumulative bene ciaries of the Cherish Food  Program each year  NEW 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Over 21,791 cumulative bene ciaries of the Cherish Food Program  Target: NEW 
Target: 1,000 person-times Environmental protection volunteers provide 1,000 person-time  services 
Exceeded       Achieved       Missed Target 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Help over 2,000 children with the remote education program 
Over 25,000 cumulative bene ciaries of the Cherish Food Program 
Note: The focus of volunteers in 2019 was on Caring for the Disadvantaged and Taking Care  of Elder People Living Alone. Volunteer service related to environmental protection  did not meet the 2019 targets. TSMC intends to recruit more eco-volunteers and  arrange more activities in order to meet the annual targets 185 
52.69 Million (NT )  
Donated over NT 52.69 million (including cash  donations, goods donation, repair services or  other indirect donations) 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation continued to focus on four major  
areas: Caring for the Disadvantaged, Taking Care of Elder People Living  
Alone, Promoting Filial Piety, and Environmental Protection. Caring for  
the Disadvantaged was the main direction, with Education in Remote  
Areas and Disadvantaged Aid as the two primary focuses in 2019.  
Onsite visits to disadvantaged families helped ensure that resources  
are being devoted to those in need. Through our e orts, we hope to  
narrow the gap between the rich and poor, and balance the inequality  
change through actual actions. Core Services 
in educational resources in remote areas. TSMC strives to drive positive  
Times of Volunteer  Service 
Volunteers 83,797  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Service Hours 
Bene ciaries 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Emergency aid, living and educational  support for the disadvantaged, and  more volunteer service 
 Employ digital technology to improve  education in remote areas 
 Organize donations from the public to o er  emergency aid to the disadvantaged 
 O er book-reading volunteers and  community volunteers 
Care for the  Disadvantaged 
O er care and service to elder  people living alone through the  Network of Love 
 Continue working with 12 partners of  the Network of Love Program 
 Assist in supplying necessary medical  resources 
 O er volunteer service 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Take Care of Elder  People Living  Alone 
Work with media, corporations,  volunteers, and teachers from the Ministry  of Education to promote  lial piety 
 Host  lial piety family events 
 Continue to promote  lial piety  volunteers 
Promote Filial  Piety 
Eco-volunteers   energy conservation  volunteers continue to serve and  expand the Cherish Food Program 
 O er energy conservation volunteers    eco-volunteers 
 Assist disadvantaged units set up solar  panels 
 Reduce food waste 
Environmental  Protection 
Donations by the TSMC Charity Foundation 
Accumulated Volunteer  Headcount  Note 3 
What We Donated  Note 1 
Total: NT  140,677,203 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Goods   Services 14.4% 
Number of Volunteers 
Accumulated Volunteer  Service  Note 3 
How We Donated  Note 2 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Total: NT  140,677,203 
Community  Investment 73.8% 
Charitable  Donations 23.4% 
Commercial Initiatives 2.8% 
Number of Volunteers 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Accumulated Volunteer  Service Hours  Note 3 
Projects We Supported 
Total: NT  140,677,203 
Care for the  Disadvantaged 77.2% 
Promote Filial Piety 2.1% 
Environmental  protection 5.2% 
Take Care of  Elder People  Living Alone 15.5% 
Note 1: Classify all activities into cash, time, goods and services according  to DJSI s de nition, and calculate the ratio of each category s  investment by monetary value (NT ). Time: volunteer service  hours  average hourly wage. Goods and services: the dollar amount  of the Company o ering of such goods and services Note 2: Classify all activities into charitable donation, community  investment, and commercial initiatives according to DJSI s  de nition, and calculate the ratio of each type s investment by  monetary value (NT ) Note 3: Volunteer headcount, person-time, and service hours in 2019 all  decreased from 2018 because (1) volunteer service increased to  meet demands for emergency relief during the Hualien earthquake  in February of 2018, and (2) The World of Semiconductors  exhibition hall at the National Museum of Natural Science was  under maintenance in 2019, resulting in a temporary decrease in  tour volunteer service 
The TSMC Charity Foundation strives to care for people locally,  and is devoted to narrowing the gap between the rich and  poor, and resolving the uneven distribution of educational  resources. In 2019, the foundation targeted Rural Education  and Disadvantaged Aid, assisting the disadvantaged in  improving living conditions and quality of education through  the donation of cash, goods, and volunteer service 
Care for the  Disadvantaged 
How We  Respond 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 No More Regrets with the Ten Thousand Dollars Per Household  Program   Emergency Aid for the Disadvantaged Program 
 Book-reading Volunteers Regularly Visit Remote Areas 
 Community Volunteers in Action 
 Close the Urban  Rural Divide with Empowerment Projects for  Education in Remote Areas 
Our  Actions 
According to the 2018 statistics from the  Ministry of Finance, the highest average  household income in Taiwan doubled from  that of the lowest household income. The gaps  between the rich and poor, and between cities  and rural areas lead to disparities in education  resources and living standards, which is an  underlying issue for our society 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
What We  Want to    Solve 
594 devices Taichung 35 
Hsinchu 109 
Changhua 27 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In order to provide children in remote areas with more comprehensive educational resources, the TSMC Charity  
Foundation has donated hardware equipment, hosted teacher training programs for online teaching, and attempted to  
 ll the resource gap between urban and rural areas so we can expand the students  learning capacities. 
Better Hardware Resources for Remote Areas 
The TSMC Charity Foundation has donated tablet PCs and secondhand computers to educational institutions for the  
disadvantaged and improved their network environments. The devices will allow children in remote areas to enjoy  
educational resources that are diverse and more  tting for their own pace and interest. In 2019, the charity foundation  
delivered 480 tablet PCs and 114 secondhand computers to 25 institutions , and established two network environments. 
Send Love Across Taiwan with Technology Devices 
Close the Urban  Rural Divide with Empowerment Projects for Education in  Remote Areas 
Taipei City   New Taipei City  90 
Pingtung 40 
Taitung 110 
We are grateful that TSMC  introduced the Junyi Academy,  allowing teachers to o er  teaching materials based on  each student s level and also  allowing children to learn more  con dently. 
CEO of Taiwan Association of   Paying Love Forward 
Chen, Mei-ju 
Host Online Teaching Training  
The TSMC Charity Foundation worked with the Junyi  
Academy to help introduce online teaching resources  
to remote areas, o er funding for volunteer training  
and digital tools training for teachers, and alleviate the  
challenges faced by the lack of teachers in remote areas.  
The volunteers from Advanced Packaging Technology  
and Service Organization, Intelligent Manufacturing  
Center, Corporate Planning Organization, Fab 12 A,  
Fab 12B, and Fab 15B co-hosed or attended teacher  
trainings to form a strong support system for education in  
remote areas. In 2019, TSMC hosted a total of 11 teacher  
training sessions where 264 teachers and volunteers  
participated. 
were delivered to 25 institutions in  romote areas, more than 1,400 childred  bene ted 
Please refer to TSMC Volunteers Incorporate Online Teaching  Materials into Services to Strengthen Education Resources in Rural  Areas on the TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility website for  more details  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Tablet PCs   Computers 
The TSMC Charity Foundation helped introduce  online teaching resources to remote areas 
Work with Microsoft Taiwan to Introduce  Coding as Part of the Curriculum 
Students in remote areas rarely get a sense of  
achievement from learning which demotivates them  
from learning. The TSMC Charity Foundation worked with  
Microsoft Taiwan to introduce remote schools to coding.  
Students learn programming languages through games  
and develop their own games using their creativity,  
helping to build con dence and a sense of achievement  
in students. In 2019, the  rst group of 32 volunteers  
completed their training and hosted three courses at  
Hexing Elementary School in the Hsinchu County, with  
a total of 54 students (person-time) bene tting from the  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Establish After-school Class in Changhua 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation o ered training  
funds, hardware equipment, and repair services to the  
after school location in Changhua. We worked with  
the BOYO Social Welfare Foundation, which is equally  
concerned with education, to establish a location for  
After-school Classes in Changhua. The location was  
completed and opened in September of 2019, assisting  
disadvantaged children with their homework and  
o ering additional after school services. TSMC is working  
with outside charities to further devote more diverse  
resources into education in remote areas. 
260 Teachers 
participated in the Online  Teaching Training  
Repair or Rebuild After-school Classrooms  for Disadvantaged Children 
    Repair the Xizhi After School Classroom  in New Taipei City 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation, along with fund- 
raising through the Sending Love charity platform, donated  
NT 1.68 million and worked with TSMC s Facility Division  
to assist in repairing the After-school Classroom, o ering  
children a safe learning environment after school. 
    Rebuild the 530 After-school Program in  Luanshan, Taitung 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation worked with  
TSMC s Facility Division to have our fab architects and  
structure technicians  nd a new location for the After- 
school program. The new location was rebuilt within 30  
days, ensuring that the 530 After-school Program will not  
have to take a break from serving students. 
No More Regrets with the Ten Thousand Dollars Per Household Program    Emergency Aid for the Disadvantaged Program 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation extended the Ten  
Thousand Dollars Per Household and Emergency Aid for  
the Disadvantaged Program by visiting disadvantaged  
families across Taiwan to help those most in need. The  
Foundation worked with the Sending Love platform  
to  nd social resources for these households and to  
o er them basic necessities. In addition to the ongoing  
support to Hsinchu City, Taichung City, Tainan City,  
Kaohsiung City, and Hualien County, the Foundation  
began providing service to Hsinchu County, Changhua  
County, Taitung City, and Chiayi City in 2019. As of the  
end of 2019, the Foundation has visited a total of 165  
disadvantaged households and established case  les for  
65 households. 
TSMC Charity Foundation visited disadvantaged  families across Taiwan to help those most in need 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
TSMC Volunteers Join in Support 
The TSMC Charity Foundation is spearheading a team  
that includes volunteers from Intelligent Manufacturing  
Center, Advanced Packaging Technology and Service  
Organization, Corporate Planning Organization, Fab 8,  
Fab 14, Fab 15A, and Fab 15B to help seek cases most in  
need and expand the scope of service. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Disadvantaged  Households TSMC Charity  Foundation Has Visited 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Rigorous Oversight 
In addition to  nding the best  t for social resources, the  
Foundation tracks how donations are used to prevent  
cases from misappropriating welfare. In 2019, funding  
was terminated for a total of 4 households because of  
other funding or misuse of funds. 
Welcome to the o cial website for Sending Love and join us in our e orts at  https:  www.520.org.tw  
Comprehensive Care with New Donation  Function 
The TSMC Charity Foundation continues to develop  
more services to support the disadvantaged. In 2019, it  
established a donation platform that matches supply  
with demand through logistics companies. Generous  
people can donate money and necessary actual goods to  
the disadvantaged. 
Please refer to TSMC Calls on Society to Put Love Together and  Send It out on the TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility website  for more details  
We are happy to be working with  TSMC to ensure that resources are  delivered to those actually in need.  The criteria for disadvantaged  case  les established by TSMC is  very rigorous and is able to really  understand local needs to o er  necessary support and assistance. 
Director of the Social A airs Bureau,  
Chiayi City Government 
Lin, Chia-wei 
Book-reading Volunteers Regularly Visit Remote Areas 
Book-reading volunteers regularly go to elementary schools in remote areas of  
Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan to read stories and teach English   math. We hope that  
the volunteers  company and diverse teaching materials can increase student s interest  
in learning. We also o er scholarships to motivate students to learn and read. In 2019,  
book-reading volunteers served a total of 1,696 times with 8,400 service hours. 
The Legal Organization regularly goes to the Yuandong Elementary School in Hsinchu  
to teach English, using teaching materials close to the daily life and competitive games  
to think outside of the box and trigger interest among children in learning English.  
The Advanced Packaging Technology and Service Organization, Intelligent  
Engineering Center, and Product Development Organization continued to work  
with the Ruei Yuan Elementary School in Taoyuan City, the Anding Elementary School  
in Tainan City, the Meihua Elementary School in Hsinchu County, and the Hexing  
Elementary School in Hsinchu County through book-reading services and scienti c  
experiments to narrow the gap between these students and science. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Community Volunteers in Action 
Community volunteers regularly visit the Veteran s Home and Teresa Children s  
Home to accompany senior citizens and children, connecting them with events  
and activities as well. In 2019, community volunteers serviced a total of 840 times  
with over 6,000 service hours.  
In 2019, Fab 8 and the Quality and Reliability Organization provided support to the  
St. Francis  Maiden s House, Renai Children s Home in Hsinchu City, and St. Francis   
Nursery in Miaoli. The goal was to  Explore Skills for New Career Possibilities ,  
hoping to inspire con dence and interest in career development among students  
through career day and DIY activities. The Facility Division serves at the Hualien  
District Haili Holiday School every Saturday, with about 550 volunteers providing  
services in 2019 to teach students and make sure that they are enjoying the  
learning process. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Repairing the Hualien Kaige Garden  Halfway House 
The Hualien Kaige Garden Halfway House was old and  
ran down. The structure of the Halfway House was also  
a serious concern after the earthquake in 2019. The  
Facility Division therefore donated around NT 1 million  
and assisted in repairing cracked walls and reinforcing  
the structure to provide children with a safer and more  
comfortable environment for living and learning. 
The TSMC Charity Foundation has lent their  support during our time in need. We were  afraid of earthquakes before because the  halfway house would shake violently but  with TSMC s structural reinforcement, we  haven t felt any of the past few earthquakes  and we feel much safer now. 
Chang, Li-ying 
Director of the Hualien Kaige Garden Halfway House 
Eyes on Us 
Photography volunteers from Fab 2  
and Fab 5 continued to accompany  
students at the Yufeng Elementary  
School and the Shilei Elementary  
School in Hsinchu County. In 2019, they  
not only called on their colleagues to  
donate 108 secondhand cameras but  
also taught the children photography  
techniques. Exhibitions were held to  
showcase the children s works and they  
were encouraged to attend national  
photography competitions to boost  
con dence and improve each year.  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Co-hosting Charity Concerts  with Other Charities 
Fab 14, the Advanced Packaging  
Technology and Service Organization,  
Junyi Academy (which proactively  
promotes education in remote areas),  
and Teach for Taiwan co-hosted the  
Charity Concerts, using music as a  
vessel to raise awareness and attract  
more sponsors. Disadvantaged children  
were also invited to the concerts, and  
a total of 5,250 people bene tted from  
the three concerts. 
5,250 People 
Bene tted from the three  concerts 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Happy Learning with Board  Games 
The Intelligent Manufacturing  
Center is introducing an interactive  
design between teamwork and  
ecosystem through board games  
and its volunteers. The goal is to  
help the students at the After School  
Association of Taiwan improve  
reactive capabilities, logic, social  
interactions, and learn resource and  
environmental sustainability. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
400,000 (NT ) 
was raised to help San Goodman  Special Education Center 
Sponsoring Social Welfare  Agencies 
Volunteers from Fab 6, Fab 8, Fab  
12A, Fab 12B, Fab 14, the Intelligent  
Manufacturing Center, Product  
Development Organization, etc.  
assisted the Luway Opportunity Center,  
Syin-Lu Social Welfare Foundation,  
Taiwan Fund for Children and Families,  
Shandao College, and other social welfare  
agencies in raising funds, participating in  
fairs, collecting donations for after school  
programs, etc. to ensure that all charities  
and social welfare agencies that genuinely  
want to improve education for children  
can continue to do so. The Product  
Development Organization helped  
raise nearly NT 400,000, purchased four  
electric shower gurneys, and improved  
facilities for the San Goodman Special  
Education Center. 
Helping Disadvantaged  Farmers 
With aging people and insu cient  
labors in remote areas, most elder  
farmers are no longer able to take care  
of their farms by themselves. Volunteers  
from Human Resources, Fab 2, Fab 5,  
and Fab 12B have launched a program  
to help the farmers harvest their fruits.  
The program not only emphasizes on  
cherishing foods and preventing food  
waste but also allows TSMC employees  
to experience the di culties of being a  
Take Care of Elder  People Living Alone 
The TSMC Charity Foundation will continue to  devote its volunteers and resources to our medical  and care partners from the Network of Love across  Taiwan. We o er resources and platforms for  interaction to provide elder people living alone with  quality, convenient, and comprehensive care in an  attempt to meet their demands 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
How We  Respond 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Network of Love Partners Work Together to  Better Serve Elder People Living Alone 
 TSMC Volunteers Accompany Elder People  Living Alone 
 Closing the Medical Resource Gap 
Our  Actions 
According to the statistics from the Ministry  of Interior, R.O.C., Taiwan became an aging  society in 2019 with over 14% of its population  were over 65 years old. The number and  various needs of disadvantaged elder people  may continue to grow 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
What We  Want to    Solve 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Network of Love Across Taiwan 
Network of Love Partners Work  Together to Better Serve Elder  People Living Alone 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation worked  
with partners of the Network of Love to connect  
medical care and service providers, giving out  
warm items in winter before the Lunar new year  
and mooncakes before the Mid-autumn festival.  
Over 1,700 seniors bene tted from the program.  
The Foundation also regularly hosts sharing  
sessions with its partners to share service  
 Miaoli Hospital, Ministry of  Health and Welfare 
 Lin Tseng Lien Welfare and  Charity Foundation 
 China Medical University  Hospita 
 Old Five Old Foundation 
 Feng-Yuan Hospital, Ministry  Of Health And Welfare 
 Taiwan Puli Care Association 
 Jianan Psychiatric Center, Ministry  of Health and Welfare 
 Tainan Hospital, Ministry of Health  and Welfare 
 Sinlau Christian Hospital 
 Old Five Old Foundation 
We would like to thank the  TSMC Charity Foundation  for connecting love and  energy across Taiwan to  help everyone and make  Taiwan a better place! 
CEO at the Mennonite Social  Welfare Foundation 
Chiu, Yen-yin 
We appreciate TSMC  for working with us  and guiding us in our  charitable ventures and  in creating a warm and  caring society. 
Director of the Fooyin University  O ce of Student A airs Service- Learning Center 
 Mennonite Christian  Hospital 
 the Mennonite Social  Welfare Foundation 
 Taipei Veterans General  Hospital 
 Old Five Old Foundation 
 Fooyin University 
Lee, Pei-yu 
Closing the Medical Resource Gap 
Set Up Intelligent Management Systems in  Nursing Homes  
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation visited nursing  
homes in Hsinchu to understand their needs and  
subsequently helped set up intelligent management  
systems as well as purchased additional medical  
equipment for daily use. The system has an indoor  
GPS that ensures the safety of elder people and it can  
also help reduce the administrative workload of care  
providers, allowing elder people to receive better care.  
Around 140 people bene tted from this project. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
served at the Dawu Township Public Health Center,  
Taitung County for the past 10 years, traveling between  
downtown Taitung to the health center every day. In  
2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation conducted onsite  
visits and found that the Dawu Township Public Health  
Center lacked cardiac care equipment. To improve the  
quality of medical care in remote areas, the Foundation  
decided to donate high-end cardiac and vascular  
ultrasound probes to assist Dr. Lu in o ering more precise  
medical treatments to local elder people. 
Ultrasound Probe Donations to the Iron  Doctor of Taitung - Dr. Lu Ke-fan 
Dr. Lu Ke-fan. nicknamed the Iron Doctor by local people,  
received the 28 th Medical Contribution Award and has  
Nursing homes  were helped to  set up intelligent  management system 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Medical care    service partners 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Develop   Donate Shower Gurneys for  Elderly Care 
Elder people who have lain in bed for a long time are  
often unable to shower and bathe because of limited  
mobility or the lack of appropriate showering equipment.  
TSMC s Facility Division developed a shower gurney  
that can meet such a demand. It can prevent water  
from clogging and subsequently resulting in injuries to  
the users. It is also great for helping those with limited  
mobility to bathe and clean, thus improving their quality  
of life. In 2019, TSMC donated 21 shower gurneys to  
related social welfare groups. 
were provided to elder  people living alone through  Networking of Love system 
9,527 Services 
TSMC Volunteers Accompany Elder People Living Alone 
New Years Celebration with Gifts 
In 2019, volunteers from Fab 3, Fab 12A, Fab 12B, Fab1  
5A, and Fab 15B purchased and donated new year food  
to institutions that o er geriatric care such as the Hsinchu  
Social Service Center, the Huashan Foundation, and the  
Old Five Old Foundation to celebrate the new year with  
elder people. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Mother s Day, Dragon Boat Festival    Christmas Services 
Volunteers celebrated festivals with elder people living  
alone. In 2019, Fab 15A volunteers accompanied elder  
people living alone to celebrate Mother s Day, and called  
for their colleagues to donate a large AC unit to the  
Huashan Foundation so elder people can enjoy a more  
comfortable living environment. Fab 15B volunteers  
wrapped rice dumplings with elder people living  
alone during the Dragon Boat Festival and gave them  
blood pressure monitors and handmade cards. Fab 8  
volunteers interacted and had fun with elder people at  
the Miao-Li Elders  Nursing Center during Dragon Boat  
Festival and Christmas. 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Encouraging Elders to Attend Outdoor  Activities 
Fab 3 volunteers collaborated with the Hsinchu Welfare  
Center to hold a hiking event at the 18 Peaks Mountain  
Park. The event included some game challenges along  
the route that raised awareness for dementia, aging,  
energy conservation, etc., helping elder people have  
closer social interaction with volunteers. Fab 15B  
volunteers accompanied elder people living alone to  
shop daily necessities, helping them interact with the  
outside world and get out of the house. 
Volunteers celebrated festivals with  elder people living alone 
Walking with elder people of our  community isn t just about walking  and talking with them. In activities  that raise awareness on aging, we can  experience the problems we may face  when we begin to age, allowing us to  o er these elder people with more  practical and realistic help. 
Volunteer from Fab 3 
Volunteers accompanied elder  people living alone to shop daily  necessities 
Promote Filial Piety 
The TSMC Charity Foundation believes that we can soften  the blow from an aged society through diverse events  for filial piety, promoting family relationship filled with  understanding and care, increasing awareness on filial piety  among our youth, and caring for the elder people 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
How We  Respond 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Filial Piety Story Reading 
 Introduce Filial Piety into  Sponsored Activities 
 Filial Piety Workshops 
According to the statistics from the Ministry  of Health and Welfare, Taiwan s society is  now an aging society and the percentage of  elder people living alone continues to rise.  Considering the limited social resources,  the TSMC Charity Foundation is hoping to  strengthen concepts of  lial piety and family  values to tackle the challenge from the root 
Our  Actions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
What We  Want to    Solve 
Company  Events 
Collaboration  with Locals   Groups 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Collaboration  with the Central  Government 
Filial Piety Volunteers  in Action 
Hosted Filial Piety  Training Workshop  with the After School  Association of Taiwan 
83Participants Seed Classrooms 
104 Filial Piety Volunteers 120 Enjoyed Parents   Children 
The Ministry of  Education Will  Implement the New  Filial Piety Project 
30people Parents   Children  Joined 
              
Labor A airs  Bureau of Tainan  City Government  Filial Piety  Workshop 
Filial Piety Workshop 
Jamm Active  Educational  Foundation Filial  Piety Workshop 
30people Parents   Children  Joined 
Continued to Work  with the Filial Piety  Resource Center of  the State Education  Department of the  Ministry of Education 
5,000 Picture Books to be Published 
Published the Filial  Piety X Ecology Picture  Book Jointly with  Global Kids Books 
Promoted  lial piety  education in 37  educational institutions 
Educational  Institutions 37 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
were bene ted through  workshop help by TSMC  Intelligent Manufacturing  Center and After School  Association of Taiwan 
2,700 Students 
Filial Piety Workshops 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation and the  
Filial Piety Resource Center of the K-12 Education  
Administration, the Ministry of Education co-hosted  
6 filial piety workshops to encourage parents  
and children to share their feelings and thoughts  
through drawing and talking. This is to strengthen  
and raise awareness for filial piety in the families.  
A total of 180 company employees and external  
parties participated in the workshops.  
The Intelligent Manufacturing Center worked with  
the After School Association of Taiwan to introduce  
the filial piety workshop model into trainings for  
after school teachers. Three trainings were hosted  
in 2019 with over 83 seed teachers participating in  
the trainings. The influence could extend to around  
2,700 students.  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
In 2019, TSMC s  lial piety volunteers read stories on  
 lial piety at schools, organized activities revolving  
around  lial piety, and prepared fun, interactive lessons  
to imbue teachings of  lial piety into the curriculum  
so as to sow the seeds of  lial piety. We are currently  
working with 12 schools through 204  lial piety  
volunteers.  
Fab 2, Fab 5, and Fab 15B have been promoting  lial  
piety at the Fuxing Elementary School and the Beishi  
Elementary School through interactions, stories or  
worksheets, encouraging students to give gifts with love  
to elders in their families to enhance the concept of  lial  
piety. In 2019, over a total of 2,000 children listened to  
stories of  lial piety, helping strengthen the relationship  
with elders in their families. 
Filial Piety Story Reading 
The TSMC Charity Foundation collaborated with  Global Kids Books, a publishing company known for  its books for children, to publish Father s Secret Base,  a book on  lial piety and the environment 
 2,000 Children 
listened to stories of   
Introduce Filial Piety into Sponsored  Activities 
The Corporate Planning Organization has included  
elements of  lial piety into activities sponsored by TSMC. In  
2019, TSMC provided resources to children for a bike tour  
around Taiwan and  lmed The Declaration of Filial Piety,  
hoping to slowly promote concepts of  lial piety and deliver  
the message of appreciation through  lial piety. 
 lial piety 
I learned from the story books  that  lial piety doesn t have to  wait until I m older and can make  money. Giving back to my elders  the way they care for me is also   lial piety!  
Beishi Elementary School   
Energy-saving and ecology volunteers go to  schools and communities to help with energy  and water conservation, promoting green and  sustainable habits, and supporting renewable  energies. The Foundation also works with food  companies to reduce food waste 
Protect the  Environment 
TSMC Charity Foundation 
How We  Respond 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 Cherish Food Program 2.0 -  Expanding Our Scope and Getting  More Partners 
 Energy-Saving Volunteers 
 Ecology Volunteers Deliver Green  Message 
Our  Actions 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Climate change has brought  on environmental issues and  food inequality. Corporations  should take action and help  reduce the negative impacts of  climate change 
What We  Want to    Solve 
Launching the Cherish Food  Program 
TSMC O ers  Freezers and  Subsidizes  Shipping Costs 
Cherish Food Program 2.0   Expanding Our Scope and Getting More Partners 
In 2019, the TSMC Charity Foundation expanded the scope of the Cherish Food Program. In addition to donating 6 freezers  
to institutions that serve the disadvantaged and working with Chi Mei Food, the Foundation added  ve new food partners  
including Laurel Corporation, Hsin Tung Yang, Hunya Foods Co., Ltd., Lian Hwa Foods Corporation, and Shih Chen Foods Co.,  
Ltd. The Foundation regularly sent goodwill foods to 45 places that serve the disadvantaged, helping over a total of 21,791  
bene ciaries in 2019. 
The Intelligent Manufacturing Center hosted four educational workshops on cherishing foods, cooking with goodwill vegetables  
and fruits and encouraging teachers from the After School Association of Taiwan to take this lesson into their own classrooms. Over  
144 participants attended the event. 
Distributing Goodwill Food to Locations Across Taiwan 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Six Companies O er  Fresh Goodwill Products 
Shih Chen Foods Co., Ltd. 
Hunya Foods Co., Ltd. 
Chi Mei Frozen Food 
Laurel Corporation 
Lian Hwa Foods  Corporation 
Hsin Tung Yang 
Has helped over a total of  21,791  bene ciaries 
Has helped a total of  45 locations 
Elementary Schools that are Long- term Partners of TSMC Volunteers 
12,084 Bene ciaries 
88 Bene ciaries 
Ten Thousand Dollars Per Household  Program and Emergency Aid for  Disadvantaged Program 
Network of Love  
3,623 Bene ciaries 
Long-term Collaborators  to TSMC Volunteers 
4,402 Bene ciaries 
Education Institutions  in Remote Areas  
1,594 Bene ciaries 
three services in Tainan, assessing and improving water and energy conservation at  
schools. Through the project, TSMC also hopes to o er students hands-on lessons  
and raise awareness for energy conservation. In 2019, energy-saving volunteers  
served a total of 238 times with over 2,400 hours of energy-saving services.  
Energy-Saving Volunteers 
TSMC s energy-saving volunteers have strong know-how on electrical engineering  
and are capable of assessing and improving the e ciency of energy as well as  
ensuring energy security. In 2019, energy-saving volunteers from Fab 6 o ered  
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 2,400 Hours 
Energy-saving Services 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Ecology Volunteers Deliver Green Message 
TSMC pays attention to environmental protection and is actively creating a  
factory ecosystem that is conducive to biodiversity. TSMC creates three green  
sustainable parks throughout Taiwan including Fab 12B in Hsinchu, Fab 15  
in Taichung, and Fab 14 in Tainan. Technology and ecology coexist in the  
three parks which will also be open to students from remote areas to tour,  
experience cleanroom suits, engage in DIY activities, and conduct scienti c  
experiments. Ecology volunteers from TSMC also serve regularly at the  
Shuihu Ecological Education Park to share the environmental knowledge and  
the beauty of nature with the public and students  
alike, strengthening their understanding and  
participation in environmental protection. In  
2019, ecology volunteers served a total of  
533 times, providing over 2,100 hours in  
ecological tours. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
 2,100 Hours 
Ecological Tours 
Beach Clean-up Activity on Earth Day 
In 2019, the Advanced Packaging Technology and  
Service Organization encouraged its employees and  
families to participate in a beach clean-up activity in  
Xinwu of Taoyuan as part of the Earth Day campaign 
Solar Panels Installation for the Hualien Kaige  
Garden Halfway House 
In 2019, the Facility Division donated over NT 900,000 to  
set up solar panels for the Hualien Kaige Garden Halfway  
House. The donation was to support renewable energy  
and environmental protection, and help the Halfway House  
green energy.   900,000 (NT ) 
receive monthly  
 nancial support  
from the sale of  
TSMC believes that sharing technology knowledge is one  
of the most important ways to give back to society. TSMC  
provides tour services to The World of Semiconductors  
at the National Museum of Natural Science and  
TSMC s Museum of Innovation for the general public to  
better understand the semiconductor industry and its  
applications. In 2019, TSMC devoted resources to help  
renovate The World of Semiconductors exhibition hall  
to ensure that all the information is comprehensive and  
up-to-date. In 2019, tour volunteers served a total of 500  
times, providing over 2,000 hours of tour services. 
Tour Volunteers Show the Public  
the Latest Technology Applications 
were donated to set up solar panels 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
    About This Report  
    Participation in Industry Associations and   Non-pro t Organizations 
    CSR Performance Summary 
    GRI Standards Comparison Table 
    Independent Third Party Assurance Statement  
    Contact Information 
As a responsible corporate citizen, TSMC strives for a better future along with its employees, shareholders and investors,  
customers, suppliers and contractors, the government, society, and all other stakeholders. TSMC has issued non- nancial  
reports for 21 consecutive years. In accordance with the standards set by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the reports  
present the expectations and feedback given by various stakeholders regarding the Company s daily operations. The  
reports have become an important way to further promote TSMC s sustainable management.  
TSMC issues its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report every year as an important tool for managing internal  
sustainability performance. The reports are able to transparently reveal the Company s sustainability plans, performance  
process, and achievement status, encouraging the Company to be a force for driving positive social development.  
The Primary Changes Disclosed in 2019 CSR Information 
The timeline of major  topics extends from 2025  to 2030 
Long-term Goals  
About This Report 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Information on  sustainability regarding  new fabs and more  subsidiaries is included 
Full Disclosure  
Issue a summary of the  CSR Report 
E cient  Communication 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Weekly updates on  highlight cases of  corporate sustainability  to provide the latest  information 
Dynamic Updates  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Reporting Scope 
This report has included TSMC s facilities in Taiwan (corporate headquarters, wafer fabs, testing and assembly plants),  
WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), VisEra and other subsidiaries. Compared to last year, Fab18 P1 and P2, Fab15  
P7, and Fab6 P2 have expanded their facilities in Taiwan and started operation. If the scope of reporting is di erent from  
the above statements, a note will be added to explain any di erence in that paragraph. 
Reporting Period 
The reporting period is between January 1 and December 31, 2019. The report is published in June,  
2020 in both English and Chinese, and is available on TSMC s CSR website. It mainly covers the major  
topics of interest to stakeholders as well as TSMC s practices in the economic, environmental, and social  
dimensions. Visit the following links for more data and information. 
CSR Website CSR Performance  Summary 
CSR Newsletter TSMC LinkedIn 
Data Collection Boundaries for Sustainable Development Issues 
Note 1: TSMC s facilities in Taiwan include corporate headquarters, wafer fabs, testing and assembly plants Note 2: TSMC subsidiaries or of ces in North America, Europe, Japan, South Korea, and other countries 
Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 
Innovation Management - - - - 
Product Quality  - 
Customer Service 
Supplier Sustainability Management  - 
Climate Change and Energy Management - 
Water Management - 
Waste Management - 
Air Pollution Control - 
Talent Attraction and Retention 
Talent Development 
Human Rights 
Occupational Safety and Health - 
Social Participation - - - - - 
Issue Taiwan Facilities Note 1 WaferTech TSMC (China) TSMC (Nanjing) VisEra Other Subsidiaries  Note 2 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
  Collect complete data               Collect partial data           -   The issue lacks materiality to the institution and is not  included in the boundary of data collection.  
Reporting Guidelines and Principles 
Reporting Writing and Quality Management Process 
Note 1 DNV GL VeriSustainTM Protocol is consistent with AA 1000 Accountability Principles (AA1000AP) and ISAE 3000 Note 2 For United Nation Global Compact Comparison Table and other related certi cation and veri cation documents, please visit TSMC s CSR website 
 Identify the annual  practice, and review  performance of each  division's sustainable  operations 
 Review completion  and accuracy of all the  data and materials 
Directors of TSMC  divisions  CSR team Members of the  CSR Committee  editing team  
Standard Standard 
Certi cation Organization 
 GRI Standards: Comprehensive Option  
 AA 1000 Accountability Principle 
 DNV GL Business Assurance 
Sustainability Environmental 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Finalization Examination Editing Compilation 
 Provide the key  sustainability factors  and issues of 2019 
   Objectives 
   Performance  indicators 
   Results 
   Future Goals 
 Overall planning 
 De ne the main theme  and content of the  report 
 Edit and revise 
 Report veri cation 
Certi cation Organization 
 IFRSs approved and issued by the  Financial Supervisory Commission (FSC) 
 Regulations Governing the Preparation of  Financial Reports by Securities Issuers 
 Deloitte   Touche 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
 Approve data  and information 
Internal VPs and above executives of TSMC organizations 
 Approve the report     
 DNV GL Business Assurance  Company Limited reviews and  veri es this report based on DNV  GL VeriSustainTM Protocol and  GRI Standards  
 GRI Standards Comparison Table  and Independent Third Party  Assurance Statement can be found  in the appendix of this report. 
External third-party inspection organizations 
Certi cation Organization 
 ISO 14001 Environmental  Management System 
 ISO 14064 Greenhouse Gas Inventory 
 DNV GL Business Assurance 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Chairperson of the CSR Committee 
If you have any feedback, advice or suggestion on this report or  
TSMC s sustainable development, please feel free to contact us.  
For more information on the latest actions of TSMC s sustainability  
project, please subscribe TSMC s CSR Newsletter. 
Responsible Unit: CSR Committee 
CSR Website: http:  www.tsmc.com.tw csr en index.html 
Email: csr tsmc.com 
Phone:  886-3-5636688 
Address: 8, Li-Hsin Rd. 6, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30078 
TSMC s Corporate Social Responsibility vision is to uplift society, and our mission is integrity, strengthening environmental protection, and caring for the  disadvantaged. Under this vision and mission, TSMC participates in a variety of industry associations and non-pro t organizations to promote industry  dialogue and development, as well as track key issues such as technology innovation, corporate governance, environmental sustainability, human rights,  and supply chain management Note 2. In 2019, TSMC participated in more than 100 industry associations and non-pro t organizations at home and abroad,  with expenditures of over NT 20.3 million Note 3. Total expenditures in the past  ve years (2014 2018) were about NT 120 million Note 4. 
Notes 1: Non-pro t organizations in the areas of charity and education  
Note 2: By law, TSMC is not permitted to make political donations  
Note 3: The  ve largest membership fees paid or donations made by  
TSMC Chairman Mark Liu has served as Chairman of The TSIA since 2019, Senior Vice  President J.K. Wang currently serves as chairperson of TSIA's energy committee, and  Director Fung Han-Wen currently serves as chairperson of TSIA's environment, safety and  health committee. Senior Director Tuan Hsiao-Chin currently serves as chairperson of SEMI's  MEMS   Sensors committee, and Director John Lin currently serves as chairperson of SEMI's  IC committee. Senior Vice President Rick Cassidy currently serves as a Board of Director  at GSA. Senior Vice President Y.P. Chin currently serves as a standing director of The Allied  Association for Science Park Industries, and Vice President Connie Ma currently serves as a  standing controller of The Allied Association for Science Park Industries.  
TSMC strives for the development of the global and domestic semiconductor industry. In  addition to participating in the main industry associations in the  eld of semiconductors,  the Company also makes policy suggestions to the government in areas including land,  water, electricity, talent, intellectual property protection and other areas related to the  competitiveness of the industry. Industry associations that TSMC participates in in the area  of industry development include: 
 The Semiconductor Industry  Association (SIA) 
 The Taiwan Semiconductor  Association (TSIA)  
 Semiconductor Equipment and  Materials International (SEMI) 
 The Allied Association for Science Park  Industries 
 Taiwan IC Industry   Academia  Research Alliance 
in Taiwan as the Company is majority-owned by foreign  
shareholders. TSMC has always followed this legal requirement  
and maintained political neutrality, but encourages employees  
to ful ll their civic duty 
are not included here. For details of TSMC s participation  
in the TSMC Charity Foundation and TSMC Education and  
Culture Foundation, please see pages 173 to 199 of this report 
TSMC, in descending order, are: 
Participation in Industry Associations and Non-profit Organizations 
Industry Dialogue and Development Technology Innovation Environmental   Sustainability 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
 The Chinese National Association of  Industry and Commerce, Taiwan 
 Chinese Association for Industrial  Technology Advancement 
 Taiwan IOT Technology and Industry  Association 
 Taiwan Electrical and Electronics  Manufacturers' Association 
 Global Semiconductor Alliance 
2) Semiconductor Industry Association NT 4,936,960  
3) The Allied Association for Science Park Industries NT 1,980,000  
1) Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association NT 5,114,747  
TSMC participates in the TSIA to support Taiwan s semiconductor industry and develop  
consensus on the development of the industry through the association s activities and  
promote healthy growth for the sector through cooperation amid competition 
The United States is one of TSMC s primary markets. TSMC participates in the SIA to join  
other industry members to collectively communicate with the U.S. government and  
highlight the importance of the semiconductor industry to U.S. economic development,  
national security, and global competitiveness 
TSMC participates in the Allied Association for Science Park Industries, which serves  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC Vice President and General Counsel Sylvia  Fang jointly founded the Taiwan Association for  Trade Secrets Protection (TTSP) in 2015, and served  as its Chairman for the  rst two terms to help  promote legal reform of Taiwan's trade secret laws  and regulations. Currently she is a standing executive  director of the TTSP.  
Technology innovation is the key driving force  moving the technology industry forward. TSMC  not only cares for and invests in technology  innovation and participates in the de nition  of technical standards, it also calls on the  government and private sector to protect the  results of innovation together so that it can gain  appropriate economic value and encourage  further innovation, creating a fair competitive  environment. Industry associations that  TSMC participates in in the area of technology  innovation include: 
 The Epoch Foundation 
 The Taiwan Association for Trade Secrets  Protection (TTSP) 
 The Peripheral Component Interconnect  Special Interest Group (PCI SIG) 
The robustness of a company's corporate  governance not only a ects that company's  development, it can also a ect the economic  stability of a region. TSMC places great  importance on corporate governance, and has  received invitations to speak on our principals  and methods for corporate governance, as  well as discuss the results of TSMC's 32 years  of corporate governance. Industry associations  that TSMC participates in in the area of  corporate governance include: 
 The Asian Corporate Governance Association  (ACGA) 
 The Taiwan Corporate Governance  Association (TSGA) 
4) Responsible Business Alliance (formerly Electronics Industry Citizenship  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC is a member of the RBA, and follows the guidelines set by the alliance for  
the supply chain to ensure a safe working environment, respect and dignity for  
workers, environmentally sustainable business operations, and compliance with  
business ethics 
as a conduit between government and business for promulgation of policies  
and communication of views. It serves the common interests of companies in  
Taiwan s science parks and facilitates cooperation for the stable development of  
science park businesses 
Coalition) NT 1,354,140  
Human Rights and Supply  Chain Management Corporate Governance 
As a leading semiconductor company, TSMC aims to use its in uence in the industry  to join hands with other enterprises to work for our mutual bene t in order to adapt  to changes in the industry and the international environment, as well as improve the  Company s quality and competitiveness. The issues covered by the industry associations  and non-pro t organizations which TSMC participates in are categorized as follows: 
As TSMC's business continues to grow, its  requirements for sustainable measures such as  energy conservation, carbon reduction, water  saving, and waste reduction all continue to  increase as well, and the company devotes much  attention to its participation in the associations  and organizations related to the issue of  environmental sustainability. In addition to sharing  our experiences with the organizations below,  TSMC has appointed more than 10 internal experts  to serve as committee members and committee  chairman in the TSIA and the Allied Association  for Science Park Industries to set standards in  energy, water, environmental protection, and  occupational health, and meet these standards  together. The industry associations and non-pro t  organizations that TSMC participates in in the area  of environmental sustainability include: 
TSMC Senior Vice President Lora Ho currently  serves as member of the Taiwan Center for  Corporate Sustainability board of directors. 
 The Science and Technology in Society Forum 
 The Taiwan Institute for Sustainable Energy   The Taiwan Center for Corporate Sustainability 
 The Business Council for Sustainable  Development of Taiwan 
Note 4: TSMC s expenditures of membership and donation for industry associations  
and non-pro t organizations between 2014 and 2018 were NT 18,225,979,  
NT 22,807,227, NT 36,296,334, NT 21,176,571, and NT 21,735,668, respectively 
5) JEDEC NT 757,320  
JEDEC is an international organization of developing technology standards,  
and its de ned open standards are broadly adopted as common standards  
in the semiconductor industry. TSMC participates in JEDEC to understand  
the most updated technology standards, so the Company s relative research,  
development and manufacturing can be based on the common standards 
TSMC is an o cial member of the Responsible  Business Alliance, and in addition to meeting  the alliance's requirements in auditing  suppliers regarding labor, health and safety,  environment, ethics, and management systems,  we have also led our suppliers to join this  alliance to expand its e ectiveness. TSMC  also requires all suppliers to commit to the  "Assurance to Comply with TSMC's Code of  Ethics and Business Conduct" and the "TSMC's  Supplier Code of Conduct" ensuring that TSMC  employees and suppliers follow high ethical  standards. Industry associations that TSMC  participates in in the area of human rights and  supply chain management include: 
 The Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
 The Responsible Minerals Initiative 
TSMC CSR Performance Summary  
Environmental 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Revenue (NT  billion) 843 948 977 1,031 1,070 
Greenhouse Gas Emission (Metric Ton - CO2 equivalent) (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 6,670,291 7,413,953 8,156,140 8,475,367 8,769,614 
NOx Emissions (Metric Tons) 54.42  60.54  82.5  118.92  116.67 
  Scope 1 (Metric Ton - CO2 equivalent) 2,027,645 2,035,510 2,075,928  2,125,725  2,071,743 
  Taiwan Sites 1,566,662 1,648,268 1,640,532  1,705,746  1,678,754 
  Taiwan Sites 4,315,766 5,030,647 5,702,511  6,325,931  6,673,235 
 Fluorinated Greenhouse Gas Emission (Metric Ton - CO2 equivalent)    1,331,467    1,259,527     1,194,136     1,185,433  1,081,212 
Net Income (NT  billion) 307 334 343 351 345 
Process Water Recycling Rate (%)  Note3 87.3 87.4 87.5 87.5 86.7 
Ultra-Pure Water Usage (Million Metric Tons) 61.0 68.8 79.7 85.1 90.1 
Total Water Saving (Million Metric Tons)  Note3 85.6 94.3 103.4 129.0 133.6 
  Scope 2 (Metric Ton - CO2 equivalent) 4,642,646 5,378,443 6,080,212 6,349,642 6,697,872 
  Scope 3 (Metric Ton - CO2 equivalent) 3,446,447 3,767,411 4,242,521 4,315,497 5,307,028 
SOx Emissions (Metric Tons) 32.55  33.08  43.87  39.71  32.18 
  Subsidiaries  Note 2 460,983 387,242 435,396  419,979  392,989 
  Subsidiaries  Note 2 326,880 347,796 377,701 23,711 24,637 
Income Tax Expense (NT  billion) 44 52 53 46 45 
VOC Emissions (Metric Tons) 129.4 163.6 170.8 168.4 102.1 
R D Expenditures (NT  billion) 66 71 81 86 91 
Energy Consumption (GWh)(Including electricity, nature gas and diesel) 8,915  9,848  12,016 13,167 14,323 
Capital Expenditures (NT  billion) 258 328 331 316 460 
 Direct Energy Consumption (GWh)(Including nature gas and diesel)  455  489  628 726 747 
 Indirect Energy Consumption (GWh)(Electricity)  8,460  9,358  11,388 12,441 13,576 
Water Consumption (Million Metric Tons)  37.5 42.0 48.9 56.8 64.3 
 Taiwan Sites 34.0 38.6 45.2 51.0 58.0 
 Subsidiaries  Note 2 3.5 3.4 3.8 5.7 6.3 
Key Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
(Continue on next page) 
Note 1: Data includes all Taiwan sites and subsidiaries of TSMC. Note 2: The scope of subsidiaries in Environmental parts includes WaferTech, TSMC China Company Limited, TSMC Nanjing Company Limited and VisEra. Note 3: Data includes all Taiwan fabs of TSMC. Note 4: Safety - Injury Frequency Rate Injury Number x 1,000,000  Total hours worked Note 5: Safety - Injury Severity Rate  Lost Work Days x 1,000,000  Total hours worked 
(Continued from previous page) 
Environmental 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) 19.1 16.3 12.9 13.1 7.9 
Numbers of Employee  45,272 46,968 48,602 48,752 51,297 
Copper ion (Cu 2 ) 0.23 0.19 0.22 0.18 0.09 
Fatalities   Employees 0 0 0 0 0 
ISO 14001 Certi ed Sites 16 18 20 22 22 
Employee Training Hours  780,546 623,711 639,852 540,408 741,178 
Females in Top Management (%) 22.7 20.0 20.0 18.5 11.1 
Safety - Injury Severity Rate  Note 5 5 7 7 13 15 
 Hazardous Waste Generated  135,572 135,177 168,631 179,944 197,131 
 Waste Recycling Rate (%)  95 95 95 95 96 
Waste Generated (Metric Tons)  273,096 298,761 369,745 393,784 416,715 
Fatalities   Contractors 0 0 0 0 0 
% Sites Certi ed 100 100 100 100 100 
Women in Workforce (%) 41.3 40.1 39.3 38.7 37.8 
Turnover Rate (%) 5.2 4.3 4.2 4.5 4.9 
  Taiwan Sites 95 95 95 95 96 
 General Waste Generated (Metric Tons)  137,524 163,584 201,114 213,840 219,584 
  Taiwan Sites 133,360 133,085 165,891 169,427 183,015 
Females in Junior Management (%)  
Cash Donation (NT  million)  Note 6 64.8 89.1 301.2 199.0 Note 7 163.5 
Females in Management (%) 11.5 11.7 12.3 12.6 12.7 
Voluntary Turnover Rate (%) 5.0 4.2 4.1 4.3 4.8 
  Subsidiaries  Note 2 79 79 80 83 74 
  Taiwan Sites 132,427 158,899 196,077 208,340 212,465 
  Subsidiaries  Note 2 2,212 2,092 2,740 10,516 14,116 
Safety - Injury Frequency Rate  Note 4 0.47 0.54 0.56 0.88 0.93 
  Subsidiaries  Note 2 5,097 4,685 5,037 5,501 7,119 
Key Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Note 6: Cash donation is the amount of cash donations by TSMC, TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, TSMC Charity Foundation, TSMC employees and  TSMC Employee Welfare Committee Note 7: In response to the government s renewable energy policy, TSMC purchased 100 GWh green power in 2017, which was the main reason for the higher  amount of annual cash donations. The government s green power purchase plan was terminated at the end of 2017. TSMC is proactively searching for  renewable energy. 
12.8 12.8 13.6 13.7 13.6 
102-13 Membership of associations  Appendix: Participation in Industry Associations and Non-Pro t Organizations 204 
102-12 External initiatives Responsible Business Alliance (RBA, the previous EICC) and Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP, the previous Con ict-free Smelter Program) - 
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our Business: About TSMC 10 
102-3 Location of headquarters Our Business: About TSMC 10 
102-4 Location of operations Our Business: About TSMC 10 
102-5 Ownership and legal form Our Business: About TSMC  TSMC  Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements 10 
102-6 Markets served Our Business: About TSMC 10 
102-7 Scale of the organization Our Business: About TSMC  TSMC  Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements 10 
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Please refer to Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Right People with Shared Vision and Values - Workforce Structure  All employee number has been disclosed in  Workforce Structure , the number of contractors has also disclosed in the note.  In 2019, there were 2,415 non-employee workers conducted preventive maintenance tasks for facility systems. 
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Supply Chain: Sustainability Risk Control and Local Supply Chain Optimization 81 
102-10 Signi cant changes to the organization and its supply chain Our Business: About TSMC  TSMC  Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements 
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach The risk management organization periodically briefs the audit committee on the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the focus of the Company s  enterprise risk management, and risk assessment and mitigation e orts. The audit committee s chairperson also reports on the risk environment and risk  mitigation actions to be taken. TSMC and its subsidiaries are committed to proactively and cost e ectively integrating and managing strategic, operational,  nancial  and hazardous risks together with potential consequences to operations and  nancial results. TSMC operates an enterprise risk management (ERM) program and  apply a risk map considering likelihood and impact severity to identify and prioritize corporate risks. Various risk treatment strategies are also adopted in response  corporate risks as they are identi ed.  
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CSR Executive Committee Chairperson  Letter from the CSR Committee Chairperson 4, 5 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior  Ethical Management: Ethic and Regulatory Compliance 
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 20 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 102 General Disclosures 
102-1 Name of the organization Our Business: About TSMC 10 
GRI Standards Comparison Table 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Responsible Supply Chain: Strategy and Long Term Goals 
Refer section 6.3 Risk Management of TSMC Annual Report for details of implementation of ERM (Eneterprise Risk Management)  
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  3.6 Regulatory Compliance 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,  and social topics  Letter from the CSR Executive Committee Chairperson  Letter from the CSR Committee Chairperson  Sustainable Governance: CSR Management 
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its  committees  
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body  The Chair of the highest governance body is not an executive o cer - 
102-18 Governance structure  Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance, CSR Management 
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and  social topics  
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical Management: Ethic and Regulatory Compliance 
102-19 Delegating authority  Sustainability Governance 14 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication  Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.4 Taiwan Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission Assessment Item 5 
Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance  TSMC s Board of Directors consists of distinguished members with a great breadth of experience as world-class business leaders or professionals. All of them have  management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members  3 Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  3.6 Regulatory Compliance  5.5.6 Employee Engagement - Employee Communication 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  2.3.1 Organization Chart  3 Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
102-25 Con icts of interest  The avoidance of con icts of interests is governed by several corporate processes. First, any director or executive o cer who, for him herself or on behalf of  another, wishes to engage in any business activity that overlaps with TSMC s business must obtain the prior approval of our shareholders  meeting or Board of  Directors respectively in accordance with relevant laws. Second, each board member and executive o cer must complete an annual declaration on related party  transactions which is reviewed by our Audit Committee. Third, we are subject to strenuous reporting requirements on reporting any related party transactions  under both R.O.C. and U.S. security rules. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body  In 2019, TSMC established  Guidelines for Nomination of Directors , which describes the procedures and criteria for the nomination, quali cation and evaluation of  candidates for Directors. Please refer to our website. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members  4.1.4 Major Shareholders  4.1.8 Related Party Relationship among Our 10 Largest Shareholders  5.3.4 Raw Materials and Supply Chain Management-Suppliers Accounted for at Least 10% of Annual Consolidated Net Procurement  5.4 Customer Trust-Customers that Accounted for at Least 10% of Annual Consolidated Net Revenue  8.1 Subsidiaries 
Please refer to Consolidated Financial Statements for 2019:   Note 38: Additional Disclosures  Table 6 - Total Purchases from or Sales to Related Parties of at Least NT 100 Million or 20% of the Paid-in Capital 
We envision the membership of its esteemed Board of Directors to be composed of highly ethical professionals with the necessary knowledge, experience and  understanding from diverse backgrounds. TSMC envisions its Board to be composed of as many independent directors as possible, and the independence of each  independent director candidate is also considered and assessed under relevant laws. Therefore, TSMC composes its Board with world-class candidates who are  were international or local business leaders in the high-tech industry, prestigious academics or other professionals excelling in their chosen  eld of expertise, all of  them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics. 
Directors shall be elected pursuant to the candidate nomination system speci ed in Article 192-1 of the R.O.C. Company Law. The tenure of o ce for Directors shall  be three years. The independence of each independent director candidate is also considered and assessed under relevant law such as the Taiwan  Regulations  Governing Appointment of Independent Directors and Compliance Matters for Public Companies . Under R.O.C. law, in which TSMC was incorporated, any  shareholders holding one percent or more of our total outstanding common shares may nominate their own candidate to stand for election as a Board member.  This democratic mechanism allows our shareholders to become involved in the selection and nomination process of Board candidates. The  nal slate of  candidates are put to the shareholders for voting at the relevant annual shareholders  meeting. 
There are no limits on the number of terms that a director may serve. We believe the Company bene ts from the contributions of directors who have over their  years of dedicated service acquired unique insights into the operations and  nancial developments of the Company. The Company reviews the appropriateness of  each director s continued service to ensure there are new viewpoints available to the Board. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body s performance  Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2  Board of Directors 
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and  social impacts 
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3. Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance  Continuing Education Training of Directors  in 2019. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values,  and strategy Sustainable Governance:  Corporate Social Responsibility Policy   Matrix  CSR Management 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC established the Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Committee in 2019. TSMC s Chairman chairs the CSR Executive Committee, and the Chairperson of  the CSR Committee serves as Executive Secretary. The Chairperson of the CSR Committee reports annually to the Board of Directors on implementation results of  the prior year and the work planned for the upcoming year (the report includes economic, environmental and social topics). In addition, the Board of Directors also  review the annual plan and the donations of the  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  and  TSMC Charity Foundation . 
TSMC s Board of Directors consists of distinguished members with a great breadth of experience as world-class business leaders or professionals. All of them have  management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics. 
TSMC has set  Corporate Social Responsibility Policy  and  CSR Matrix , and the  CSR Matrix  clearly de nes the scope of the TSMC s responsibilities. 
Through quarterly management report and annually CSR report to develop and enhance the Board of Directors  collective knowledge of economic, environmental  and social topics. 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.2 Board of Directors 
    Directors  Compensation 3.2.2 Compensation Committee 
    Board of Directors Meeting Status 3.4 Taiwan Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission Assessment Item 5  7 2019 CSR Awards, Recognitions and Ratings 
    Compensation Committee 3.4 Taiwan Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission Assessment Item 5 6.3 Risk Management 7 Corporate Social Responsibility 
    2019 Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance Awards and Ratings 
    The Board of Directors considers economic, environmental and social topics and their impact, risks and opportunities, and stakeholder opinions, when  resolving important company matters, for example, when approving capital appropriations. The Board will also review the corporate strategies proposed by  TSMC management, evaluate the prospects of these strategies, review their progress, and provide guidance to TSMC management when needed.  
    Audit Committee 
    CSR Management 
    Stakeholder Engagement 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
102-33 Communicating critical concerns In addition to holding regular meetings, TSMC management will regularly provide to the Board of Directors material company reports and information: 
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3. Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance  6.3 Risk Management - 
102-32 Highest governance body s role in sustainability reporting  Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance  This report is reviewed and approved by the Company s functional heads and Chairperson of the Corporate Social  Responsibility Committee (Chief Financial O cer) - 
102-35 Remuneration policies Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report :  2.4.2 Remuneration Paid to Directors  2.5.2 Compensation Paid to CEO and Vice Presidents  2.5.3 Employees  Pro t Sharing Bonus Paid to Management Team 
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Please refer to the material information the Company has disclosed on TWSE website, which indicates the total number and nature of critical concerns.  
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-30 E ectiveness of risk management processes  The risk management organization periodically briefs the audit committee on the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the focus of the Company s  enterprise risk management, and risk assessment and mitigation e orts. The audit committee s chairperson also reports on the risk environment and risk  mitigation actions to be taken. TSMC s risk management organization is composed of RM Steering Committee, RM Executive Council , and RM Program. Refer  section 6.3.1 Risk Management Organization of TSMC Annual Report for details. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  6.3 Enterprise Risk Management Framework:   TSMC and its subsidiaries adopt risk management strategies corresponding to risk level through implementing an enterprise risk management system that weighs  strategic, operational,  nancial and hazardous risks that may disrupt the Company s operations or  nancial results. If any events of critical concerns occur, the  Company can resolve the event by using existing risk management mechanisms. 
And also, 2019 CSR Report :  Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention -  Competitive Compensation Program - Bene t program, Solid Pension System. Our compensation is above  the industry peers, and our bene t program also exceed the statutory requirements. 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.2 Board of Directors 
    Accounting department: monthly  nancial information and quarterly  nancial statements  
    Internal Audit department: the quarterly internal audit report  and  
    Public Relations department: press release  In addition, the Board maintains a regular line of communication with TSMC management, which will remain open if an event of critical concerns occurs. 
    Audit Committee Meeting Status 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
102-49 Changes in reporting  Appendix: About this Report 201 
102-52 Reporting cycle Appendix: About this Report 201 
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Competitive Compensation Program  Median of global employees annual total compensation   Annual total compensation ratio between CEO and median 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  nancial statements  Our Business: About TSMC   Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements 20 
102-47 List of material topics  Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 20 
102-46 De ning report content and topic Boundaries  Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication  Appendix: About this Report 
102-48 Restatements of information No signi cant changes - 
102-50 Reporting period  Appendix: About this Report 201 
102-51 Date of most recent report  June, 2019 - 
102-37 Stakeholders  involvement in remuneration  TSMC devotes to strengthening Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance, keep communication channels open to every stakeholder, and fully collected  the suggestions and take them into operational considerations. We believe  Talent is the most important asset of the Company  and the concept of balancing  employee s welfare and shareholder s right. Upon this, we provide competitive total compensation to attract and retain our talents. Over the years, the Company  has performed well and not only the shareholders have earned a return on investment above the industry average, but also our employees  total compensation  has been better than other industry peers and most of the local enterprises based in Taiwan. 
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Competitive Compensation Program  Headcount, average annual compensation, and median annual compensation of non-corporate executive full-time employees, and year-over-year di erence.   137 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups  Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 20 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Inclusive Workplace: Human Rights - Internal Communication Channels for Employees 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders  Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 20 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 20 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication - 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-36 Process for determining remuneration  Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Competitive Compensation Program 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC strives to create harmonious employee relations, values two-way communication and fosters open communication channels for management levels,  subordinates and peers. The Company provides a number of voice channels with handling the cases in a fast and con dential manner. Among them, people in  charge are the highest executives of human resources organizations, demonstrating our emphasis on employee opinions. E ective communication between  the Company and employees creates a high-involvement working environment. Employees are also highly engaged and willing to make commitments to TSMC.  In addition, TSMC abides by regulations to hold Labor-Management Meeting periodically, summarizes and publishes business updates, labor conditions, and  employee welfare activities for employees. 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report :  3.2.2 Compensation Committee  3.2.4 Director and Committees Members Attendance  Compensation Committee Meeting Status 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
GRI 201 Economic Performance 
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Our Business: Financial Performance, Tax Policy  Sustainable Governance: Sustainable Value Creation  Appendix: CSR Performance Summary  Inclusive Workplace:Talent Attraction and Retention, Compensations and Bene ts  Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements for detailed information. 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Please refer to the contents of related topics - 
201-3 De ned bene t plan obligations and other retirement plans Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Pension Plan - Pension Plan and Pension Allocation in TSMC  TSMC  de ned contribution plan recognized expenses of NT 2,609,733 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2019. TSMC makes monthly contributions  equal to 6% of each employee s monthly salary in Taiwan. TSMC s oversea subsidiaries also make monthly contributions at certain percentages of the basic salary  of their employees in accordance with local practices. 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Appendix: About this Report 201 
102-55 GRI content index Appendix: GRI Standards Comparison Table 207 
102-56 External assurance  Appendix: Independent Third Party Assurance Statement 203 221 
GRI 103 Management Approach 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sustainable Governance: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication 20 
103-2 The management approach and its components Please refer to the contents of related topics - 
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Financial assistance received from the R.O.C. government: In 2019, TSMC enjoyed a tax bene t of NT 29.4 billion from  ve-year tax exemption for capital  investments made in previous years, and tax credits of NT 5.9 billion for research and development expenditures. (Our wafer fabs in China received subsidies from  the local government, but according to the agreement, TSMC can not disclose the content and amount.) - 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report  Appendix: About this Report 201 
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due  to climate change Green Manufacturing:  Climate Change and Energy Management  TSMC TCFD framework  Climate Risks Matrix  Climate Financial Risk Analysis  Purchasing Green Power 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
11, 13  31  205  137 
95  98  99  100  103 
GRI 204 Procurement Practices  
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers  Responsible Supply Chain: Continue Driving Local Supply Chain Upgrade 81 
GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts  
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Please refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, Social Participation part, TSMC Charity Foundation chapter. Contents including donation, in-kind giving,  construction services, repair services, volunteers services, etc. 185 
GRI 205 Anti-corruption 
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption TSMC assesses anti-corruption risk based on function rather than geographical region. Please refer to the corresponding sections in this report for risk assessment  approaches. Based on 2019 s employee ethics survey, supplier survey, CSA Reports received from each division, and a review of the incidents received through the  reporting channels and the results of investigations conducted accordingly, the corruption risk is appropriately controlled and no signi cant corruption risk was  identi ed.  
203-2 Signi cant indirect economic impacts Today, TSMC is the world s largest semiconductor foundry, manufacturing 10,761 di erent products using 272 distinct technologies for 499 di erent customers in  2019.  Output Value Driven by the Supply Chain - 
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local  community 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 202 Market Presence  
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to  local minimum wage  Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Compensation Ratio between Male and Female - The ratio of annual total compensation between female  and male employees in each region of TSMC 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
The total compensation of a newly-graduated engineer with a Master s degree in Taiwan in year 2019 would be equal to 31 months  salary, including 12 months   base salary, 2 months  year-end bonus and around 17 months  employees  cash bonus and pro t sharing bonus  the total compensation of a direct employee  would be equal to 26 months  salary  and the monthly wage is around 3 times of base wage in Taiwan. 
For the non-TSMC employee workers, TSMC requests their companies that the compensation paid to their workers shall comply with all applicable wage laws,  including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated bene ts. 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  3.6 Regulatory Compliance 
In 2019 TSMC Annual Report, 2.5.1 Information Regarding Management Team, we ve disclosed that we hire 18 out of 23 local people, accounting for 78.3%. 
De nition:   Senior management: In 2019 TSMC Annual Report, 2.5.1 Information Regarding Management Team, we ve disclosed our management team.  Local: de ne by nationality 
Important base: mean where the headquarter located and where the majority of employees work. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
205-3 Con rmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethical Management: Ethic and Regulatory Compliance 
GRI 302 Energy 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Improve energy e ciency 104 
GRI 303 Water 
303-1 Water withdrawal by source Risk Management of Water Resources 112 
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Greenhouse Gas Inventory for Upstream and Downstream Supply Chain 102 
302-3 Energy intensity Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Improve energy e ciency 104 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Improve energy e ciency 104 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services More Advanced and More Energy E cient Electric Products 50 
303-2 Water sources signi cantly a ected by withdrawal of water  Risk Management of Water Resources 112 
303-3 Water recycled and reused Risk Management of Water Resources 112 
GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and  monopoly practices 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies  and procedures 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Integrity is the most important value of TSMC s culture. In 2019, TSMC publises the  TSMC Anti-Corruption Commitment  to reiterate that TSMC take a zero- tolerance approach toward corruption, meanwhile elaborating the regulations regarding avoiding con icts of interest, political and charitable contributions, and  whistleblower channel. Please refer to our website: https:  www.tsmc.com download ir majorInternalPolicies TSMC Anti-Corruption Commitment e.pdf  TSMC provides anti-corruption and ethics training when each new colleague. For the current colleagues, TSMC provides a variety of training courses in the form  of face-to-face courses, communication meetings, online compulsory and elective courses, and provides regulatory compliance guidelines and FAQs through the  factory posters, company s internal website, internal e-mails, and education propaganda articles, etc., to ensure colleagues access to new knowledge of regulations  and deepen their knowledge of various issues. 
Ethical Management: Ethic and Regulatory Compliance 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  3.6 Regulatory Compliance 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 
 Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  6.3.3 Operational Risks Risks Associated with Litigious and Non-litigious Matters  - 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental  criteria Responsible Supply Chain: 2019 Goals and Achievements  100% new suppliers compliant and signed  TSMC ethics and supplier code of conduct  81 
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Company has no signi cant  nes and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance of enviromental laws and regulations 2019. - 
306-5 Water bodies a ected by water discharges and or runo  TSMC s treated wastewater is discharged to the Science Park wastewater treatment plant, and there is no signi cant  environmental impact - 
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Green Manufacturing: Waste Management 121 
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste In 2019, TSMC exported 3.388 tons cadmium battery, which was 0.0009% of total disposed wastes. - 
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other  signi cant air emissions Green Manufacturing: Air Pollution Control  Air emissions in 2019, VOC: 108.1metric tons, NOx: 116.67 metric tons, SOx:32.18 metric tons 130 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Greenhouse Gas Inventory 102 
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Greenhouse Gas Inventory 102 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Greenhouse Gas Inventory 102 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management:Best Mitigation Results in the Industry 109, 102 
GRI 306 E uents and Waste 
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination TSMC (China): On-site treated water discharges to Industrial District Wastewater Treatment Plant (IDWWPT). Discharge destination of IDWWPT treated water is  Youdun Harbor.   TSMC (Naijing): On-site treated water discharges to Industrial District Wastewater Treatment Plant (IDWWPT). Discharge destination of IDWWPT treated water is  Yangtze River.   US WaferTech: On-site treated water discharges to the City of Camas Publically Owned Treatment Works (POTW). Discharged destination of POTW treated water is  Columbia River. 
306-3 Signi cant spills There were no signi cant spills in all TSMC fabs in 2019. - 
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and  actions taken Please refer to the  sustainable risk assessment  method in the  Responsible Supply Chain  chapter. TSMC requires suppliers to meet the sustainability standards  through the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct , which includes environmental impact issues, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to implement sustainable According to  the questionnaire, a total of 1,226 questionnaires (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2019. If the supplier has potential risks, it  will be continuesly to request improvement. 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 305 Emissions 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Green Manufacturing: Climate Change and Energy Management: Greenhouse Gas Inventory 102 
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) TSMC doesn t use Motreal Protocol Class I   II ODS - 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with  trade unions No related agreements. - 
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related  to their occupation TSMC s critical health risk operations include operations involving noise, ion-radiation, lead, dimethylformamide, n-hexane, arsenic, manganese and its  compounds, dust, chromic acid and its salts, nickel and its compounds, mercury and its inorganic compounds. Fab ISEPs report workers engaged in related  operations for special annual health exams and categorized health management if necessary. In 2019, complying with occupational safety and health regulation,  there were 3,966 participants for special hazardous health check, 100% completion rate. 
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,  lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related  fatalities 
401-2 Bene ts provided to full-time employees that are not  provided to temporary or part-time employees Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Bene t program 
401-3 Parental leave  Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention -  Competitive Compensation Program - Bene t program 137 
GRI 402 Labor Management Relations 
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes  Inclusive Workplace: Human Rights - Internal Communication Channels for Employees 
GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 
403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management worker  health and safety committees Corporate Level Safety and Health Committee is hosted by Corporate ESH Director, percentage of total workforce represented is 57%. - 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 401 Employment 
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Recruitment - Campus Recruitment  Talent Attraction and Retention - Recruitment - Campus Recruitment  TSMC has approximately 90% of employees located in Taiwan. Overseas employees are mostly located in Asia, which is merely 7.6% of all employees  the  proportion of other regions is lower. 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
For high risk groups, such as those at risk for work-induced cerebral and cardiovascular diseases, ergonomic hazards, and maternal health, TSMC institutes  hierarchical management measures in order to minimize or eliminate the risks. 
Occupational Safety and Health: Occupational Injuries - 
Note: TSMC provide the localized leave and insurance programs to employees in overseas regions. We grant additional days of annual leave to employees in  China, North America and Europe. As for insurance program, the comprehensive life and medical insurance program are also designed in consideration of the local  regulations, industry practices and local conditions for each overseas region. 
If the Company terminates employment, the Company will notify employees in advance abide by the law 
In 2019, TSMC (Taiwan area) has 5,087 new hires, including 76.1% of young generation which is below 30-years old. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Compensation Ratio between Male and Female - The ratio of annual total compensation between male and  female employees in each region of TSMC 137 
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  assistance programs Inclusive Workplace: Talent Development 
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  career development reviews Inclusive Workplace: Talent Development 
GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainable Governance: Corporate Governance 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 404 Training and Education 
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Inclusive Workplace: Talent Development 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
1. Expose annual key annual projects to enhance employees  capability, such as Technical Depth Project to improve capabilities of engineers   supervisors  2. There is no related transition assistant programs for career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment 
Based on individual job requirements, performance assessment results (The performance appraisal was conducted in the middle of the year and at the end of the  year, and the assessment rate was 100% in 2019), and career development needs, the employees of TSMC set up their own individual development plans (IDP),  which are one of the basis of the company s annual training plan. 
1.The current design of the training system does not include the average hours of training per employee per year based on gender  2. Reveal the average hours of training per employee each year  3. Reveal the average hours of training by di erent categories of employees per year(manager, non-manager indirector employee, and direct employee) 
Please refer to 2019 TSMC Annual Report:  2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members  TSMC s Board is comprised of a diverse group of professionals from di erent backgrounds in industries, academia, law, etc. These professionals include citizens  from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class business operating experience, two of whom are female (the ratio is 22.22%). 
Inclusive Workplace: Talent Attraction and Retention - Recruitment 
In 2019, TSMC has 5,087 new hires, including young generation, female interns, overseas talents hired in Taiwan area, and disabled workers. 
1. In 2019, 240 interns have joined tsmc internship program, including 69 female studetns (29% of all interns). After internship, 92 well-performed interns (38% of all  interns) were given advanced o er  Among them, 23% are female students. Rates of all female interns, female interns who receive advanced o ers, and female  interns who have joined tsmc are higher than 18.3%, the rate of female professions in TSMC. 
2. The table of  Overseas talents hired in Taiwan area . 
3. Disabled workers: In 2019, TSMC fabs in Taiwan has hired 315 employees with moderate and mild disability, and 79 profound and severe disability. The total  number of disabilities hires is 1%, compliance with government regulation. In addition, TSMC subsidiary - VisEra has provided permanent jobs to people with  disability and has 3 disabled employees in 2019. The total number of VisEra s disabiltities hires is lower than 1%, the main reason is that manpower allocation  has caused hiring people with disabilities a big challenge, and there is shortage of those applicants. VisEra has paid to local employment funds to meet  compliance, and continuously provide suitable job opportunities to people with disabilities and looking forward to more applicants with disbilities.  
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
GRI 408 Child Labor 
408-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for incidents of  child labor 
GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labor 
GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of  association and collective bargaining may be at risk 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 406 Non-discrimination 
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Inclusive Workplace: Human Rights - Internal Communication Channels for Employees 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
In 2019, there were 3,998 cases being raised through internal communication channels in TSMC, including 4 sexual harassment cases from sexual harassment  investigation committee, 141 cases via ombudsman system, 643 cases via employee opinion box, 3,151 cases via fab caring circle, and 59 cases via ethic report  system and all these cases were well-handled by the designated team. All sexual harassment and ombudsman cases were investigated and reviewed by committee  members. As for the employee opinion box, all cases were dispatched and replied by the people in charge based on the questions. Employees can easily access  these internal communication channels via myTSMC (an internal employee portal). Internal communications channels were also introduced toward new comers  during the orientation to ensure all Taiwan employees could be well-informed of the channels since very beginning. 
TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to  TSMC Human Rights Policy  and  Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct .  We treat all workers, including regular, contract, and temporary employees, and interns, with dignity and respect, and reduce every kind of risk to protect our  employees. More details on  TSMC Human Rights Policy  
Please refer to the  sustainable risk assessment  method in the  Responsible Supply Chain  chapter. TSMC requires suppliers to meet the sustainability standards  through the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct , which includes workers  freedom of association or group consensus, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to implement  sustainable According to the questionnaire, a total of 1,226 questionnaires (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2019. If the supplier  has potential risks, it will be continuesly to request improvement. 
 TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to  TSMC Human Rights Policy  and  Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct .  We treat all workers, including regular, contract, and temporary employees, and interns, with dignity and respect, and reduce every kind of risk to protect our  employees. More details on  TSMC Human Rights Policy  
Please refer to the  sustainable risk assessment  method in the  Responsible Supply Chain  chapter. TSMC requires suppliers to meet the sustainability standards  through the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct , which includes no child labor policy, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to implement sustainable According to the  questionnaire, a total of 1,226 questionnaires (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2019. If the supplier has potential risks, it will be  continuesly to request improvement.  
TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to  TSMC Human Rights Policy  and  Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct .  We treat all workers, including regular, contract, and temporary employees, and interns, with dignity and respect, and reduce every kind of risk to protect our  employees. More details on  TSMC Human Rights Policy  
Please refer to the  sustainable risk assessment  method in the  Responsible Supply Chain  chapter. TSMC requires suppliers to meet the sustainability standards  through the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct , which includes no bonded labor policy, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to implement sustainable According to the  questionnaire, a total of 1,226 questionnaires (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2019. If the supplier has potential risks, it will be  continuesly to request improvement. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
GRI 418 Customer Privacy 
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer data Innovation and Service: Customer Service - Customer s Virtual Fab (no customer complains in information leakage) 72 
GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Responsible Supply Chain: 2019 Goals and Achievements 
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and  safety impacts of products and services Not applicable - 
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Inclusive Workplace: Human Rights - Human Rights Risk Mitigation Measures  Disclose the total training hours, total number of employee and employee training percentages related to human rights policies. 
412-3 Signi cant investment agreements and contracts that  include human rights clauses or that underwent Human  Rights screening 
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions  taken Please refer to the  Human Rights  action plan in the  Responsible Supply Chain  chapter, TSMC take actions to supplier employees working in TSMC  s factory  area in Taiwan, through reminders, audits,contracts and penalties related actions to guard aspect such as working hours   safety   labor. 81 
GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and  service categories There is no signi cant health and safety impacts for the products and services that TSMC provided to customers. - 
GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and  economic area Company has no signi cant  nes and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance of  social and economic area in 2019. - 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title  Report Contents or Explanation Page 
GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews  or impact assessments Inclusive Workplace: Human Rights - Human Rights Policy 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
100% new suppliers compliant and signed  TSMC ethics and supplier code of conduct  
In 2019, TSMC provided employees with a total of 116,907 hours of Human Rights protection training. In total, 48,763 employees (92,971 person-time employees)  completed the training program, accounting for 95% of TSMC s total employees. 
In 2019, TSMC continued to construct new facilities in Taiwan. Taiwan has a high evaluation of international human rights appraisal, and has no signi cant issues  on this topic. - 
TSMC abides local laws and regulations in all countries and regions where we operate, as well as upholds the Human Rights of workers, including regular,  contract and temporary employees, interns, etc. We treat them with dignity and respects as understood by the international Human Rights standards such as The  International Bill of Human Rights, The International Labour Organization s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and Ten Principles of The  United Nations Global Compact. We also align our actions with the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct.  
We also establish TSMC s Supplier Code of Conduct and require our suppliers to adopt the same policy. 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Independent Third Party Assurance Statement 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
Backend Fabs 
Advanced Backend Fab 1 6, Creation Rd. II, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30077,  Taiwan R.O.C  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-5773628 
Advanced Backend Fab 2 1-1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Tainan Science Park, Tainan  74144, Taiwan R.O.C  Tel:  886-6-5056688 Fax:  886-6-5051262 
Corporate Headquarters   Fab 12A 8, Li-Hsin Rd. 6, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30078,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-5637000 
R D Center   Fab 12B 168, Park Ave. II, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30075,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-6687827 
Fab 2, Fab 5 121, Park Ave. 3, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30077,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-5781546 
Fab 3 9, Creation Rd. 1, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30077,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-5781548 
Fab6 1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Tainan Science Park, Tainan  74144, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-6-5056688 Fax:  886-6-5052057 
Fab 8 25, Li-Hsin Rd., Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu 30078,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-5662051 
Wafer Fabs in Taiwan 
Contact Information 
2019 Corporate Social Responsibility  Report 
Advanced Backend Fab 3 101, Longyuan 6th Rd., Longtan Dist., Taoyuan City  32542, Taiwan R.O.C  Tel:  886-3-5636688 Fax:  886-3-4804250 
Advanced Backend Fab 5 5, KEYA W. RD., Cental Taiwan Science Park, Taichung  42882, Taiwan R.O.C  Tel:  886-4-27026688 Fax:  886-4-27026688 
Fab 14A 1-1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Tainan Science Park, Tainan  74144, Taiwan R.O.C.  Tel:  886-6-5056688 Fax:  886-6-5051262 
Fab 14B 17, Nan-Ke 9th Rd., Tainan Science Park, Tainan 74144,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-6-5056688 Fax:  886-6-5055217 
Fab 15A 1, Keya Rd. 6, Central Taiwan Science Park, Taichung  42882, Taiwan R.O.C  Tel:  886-4-27026688 Fax:  886-4-25607548 
Fab 15B 1, Xinke Rd., Central Taiwan Science Park, Taichung  40763, Taiwan R.O.C  Tel:  886-4-27026688 Fax:  886-4-24630372 
Fab 18 8, Beiyuan Rd. 2, Tainan Science Park, Tainan 74543,  Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel:  886-6-5056688 Fax:  886-6-5050363 
Ethical Management  Innovation and Service  Responsible Supply Chain   Green Manufacturing Inclusive Workplace Common Good 
TSMC North America 2851 Junction Avenue, San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A  Tel:  1-408-3828000 Fax:  1-408-3828000 
TSMC Europe B.V. World Trade Center, Zuidplein 60, 1077 XV  Amsterdam, The Netherlands  Tel:  31-20-3059900 Fax:  31-20-3059911 
TSMC Japan Limited 21F, Queen's Tower C, 2-3-5, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku  Yokohama, Kanagawa, 220-6221, Japan  Tel:  81-45-6820470 Fax:  81-45-6820673 
TSMC China Company Limited 4000, Wen Xiang Road, Songjiang, Shanghai, China  Postcode: 201616  Tel:  86-21-57768000 Fax:  86-21-57762525 
Subsidiary 
Our Business Sustainable Governance Our Focuses and Progress 
TSMC Nanjing Company Limited 16, Zifeng Road, Pukou Economic Development  Zone, Nanjing Jiangsu Province, China   Postcode: 211806  Tel:  86-25-57668000 Fax:  86-25-57712395 
TSMC Korea Limited 15F, AnnJay Tower, 208, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu,  Seoul 06220, Korea  Tel:  82-2-20511688 
TSMC Design Technology Japan, Inc.  10F, Minatomirai Grand Central Tower, 4-6-2,  Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 220- 0012, Japan  Tel:  81-45-6644500 
TSMC Design Technology Canada Inc. 535 Legget Dr., Suite 600, Kanata, ON K2K 3B8,  Canada  Tel:  613-576-1990 Fax:  613-576-1999 
TSMC Technology, Inc 2851 Junction Avenue, San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A  Tel:  1-408-3828000 
WaferTech L.L.C. 5509 N.W. Parker Street, Camas, WA 98607-9299  U.S.A.  Tel:  1-360-8173000 Fax:  1-360-8173590 
VisEra Technologies Company Limited 12, Dusing Rd. 1, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu City  30078, Taiwan R.O.C.  Tel:  886-3-666-8788 Fax:  886-3-666-2858 
Copyright Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited 2019-2020. All Rights Reserved. 