The Corporate Philosophy defines the pur- pose of Tokyo Electron’s existence and its  mission in society. It represents Tokyo  Electron’s basic way of thinking and forms  the foundation for its corporate activities.  The Vision describes Tokyo Electron’s  medium- to long-term business aspirations  and the direction of Tokyo Electron’s near  future. Jointly with the Medium-term  Management Plan, the Vision defines Tokyo  Electron’s focus in the industry. We strive to contribute to the develop- ment of a dream-inspiring society  through our leading-edge technologies  and reliable service and support. groundbreaking proactive solutions   that integrate diverse technologies. Disclaimer Matters discussed in this annual report, including forecasts of future business performance of Tokyo Electron, management  strategies, beliefs and other statements are based on Tokyo Electron’s assumptions in light of information that is currently  available. These forward-looking statements involve known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could  cause actual results to differ materially from those referred to in the forward-looking statements.   Factors that have a direct or indirect impact on Tokyo Electron’s future performance include, but are not limited to: For details, please refer to Business-Related and Other Risks on page 15. To begin, we would like to express our deepest gratitude for  the ongoing support and confidence of our shareholders,  investors and all of Tokyo Electron’s stakeholders.  In 2019, the wafer fab equipment market declined year on  year, as investment by memory chip manufacturers under- went a period of adjustment, but still surpassed US$50 billion,  supported by investment by logic chip manufacturers and foundries. The flat panel display (FPD) production equipment  market also contracted from 2018, but investment in this  market began to recover in the second half of the year.  Despite these market conditions and the impact of COVID-19  near the end of the fiscal 2020, Tokyo Electron exceeded its  annual forecasts for net sales, operating income and net  income attributable to owners of the parent. The transition to a data-driven society is accelerating,  reflecting the adoption of IoT, AI and 5G, as well as the growing  use of remote work arrangements, distance learning and  remote medicine in response to COVID-19. The importance of  semiconductors and displays as the infrastructure underlying  this data-driven society is growing, and as such, the production  equipment markets are expected to continue to expand. aim to increase Tokyo Electron’s corporate value while con- tributing to the development of a dream-inspiring society by  delivering the Best Products and Best Service through the  integration of our innovative and diverse technologies.  We look forward to your continued confidence and support. CONTENTS 663.9 799.7 Semiconductor devices are broadly used in mobile devices, such as smartphones  and tablets, as well as the data centers that are indispensable for the processing  of big data. With the adoption of IoT, AI and 5G, as well as the growing use of  remote work arrangements, distance learning and remote medicine, the semi- conductor market is expected to expand. Tokyo Electron provides a wide range  of semiconductor production equipment used to manufacture such semicon- ductors along with reliable technical support and service. The main categories of  our product lineup are coater/developers, etch systems, deposition systems and  cleaning systems used in wafer processing as well as wafer probers used in the  wafer testing process. In addition, we also offer such products as wafer bonders/ debonders used in advanced packaging processes. The amounts in this report in billions, millions and thousands of yen; thousands of U.S. dollars; and thousands of shares as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and prior are rounded to the nearest unit.  Such amounts as of and for the years ended March 31, 2017 and onward, including year-on-year differences, are truncated at the nearest unit. Accordingly, totals for the years ended March 31, 2017 and onward  do not necessarily agree with the sum of the corresponding individual amounts. 40.2 40.3 42.0 41.2 44 1,130.7 1,278.2 1,127.2 40.1 0 116.8 17.6 19.5 155.6 281.1 24.9 310.5 24.3 237.2 21.0 28 (%) 0 115.2 13.0 77.9 19.1 204.3 29.0 32 248.2 30.1 3.3% Southeast Asia 5.5% Europe 14.3% South Korea 15.0% Japan 18.3% China 24.2% Taiwan 185.2 21.8 (%) 19.4% P FPD Coater/Developer P FPD Etch/Ash System P Inkjet Printing System for Manufacturing OLED Display Flat panel displays (FPDs) are an essential part of everyday life, employed in such  products as TVs, smartphones and tablets. Going forward, applications for FPDs  are expected to expand even further with the adoption of flexible displays and  higher resolution OLED displays. Tokyo Electron supplies coater/developers and  etch/ash systems for manufacturing FPDs along with solid technical support  and service. We also offer inkjet printing systems for manufacturing OLED   displays to take advantage of the expanding OLED display market. 118.0 139.7 1,245.48 149.5 199.5 (Yen) 1,600 461.10 702.26 1,513.58 758 1,170.57 588 15.9% Others 84.1% China In 2019, the wafer fab equipment (WFE)1 market,   which had been expanding for several years, underwent   a period of adjustment. Given this, how do you evaluate  Tokyo Electron’s performance for fiscal 2020? In 2019, although investment by logic  chip manufacturers and foundries grew,  driven by demand for data centers and  5G smartphones, investment by mem- ory chip manufacturers underwent  an adjustment following several years  of investing to increase production  capacity. As a result, the global WFE  market edged down year on year. In  addition, there were concerns about  the impact of COVID-19 near the end  of fiscal 2020. Nevertheless, we met  our financial estimates for all our key  indicators, namely net sales, operating  income and operating margin. The  driving force behind Tokyo Electron is  its rich technological prowess built up  as an industry leader, customer trust  based on solid technical service, and  our employees, who are capable of  flexibly and rapidly adapting to chang- es in the environment and always  eager to take on new challenges. Fiscal  2020 was truly a year in which the  strength of Tokyo Electron was put to  the test, whether it was maintaining  production amid the rising threat of  COVID-19 or providing remote custom- er support and the flexible response of  local employees overseas amid travel  restrictions. I believe Tokyo Electron  rose to the challenge.   We announced a plan to invest  approximately ¥400 billion in research  and development over the three years  beginning with fiscal 2020 to achieve  the targets of the medium-term   management plan. In line with the  plan, in fiscal 2020, we invested ¥120.2  billion in research and development,  a record high.  Amid this rapidly changing business  environment, and while investing  aggressively in growth, I think that our  results for the year were satisfactory,  precisely achieving our initial financial  estimates for fiscal 2020s and achiev- ing net sales of more than ¥1 trillion,  an operating margin of over 20% and  ROE over 20% for a third consecutive  year. Going forward, all of Tokyo  Electron will continue to work as one  to achieve the upwardly revised tar- gets of the medium-term manage- ment plan published in May 2019. tion process is divided into front-end production, in  which circuits are formed on wafers and inspected, and  back-end production, in which wafers are cut into chips,  assembled and inspected again. WFE refers to the pro- duction equipment used in front-end production and in  wafer-level packaging production. For details on the medium-term management plan,   please visit our website. www.tel.com/ir/policy/mplan/ Question02 Could you tell us your medium- to long-term outlook for  the business environment? In addition to IoT, which will connect all  kinds of things to networks, the growing  adoption of AI and 5G is bringing us into  the true big data era. As a result, going  forward, global data traffic is forecast to  grow at a compound annual growth rate  of 26%2. In addition, the spread of COVID- 19 is accelerating the use of remote work  arrangements, distance learning, remote  medicine, and streaming video services,  further increasing the importance of  aggressively implementing information  and communications technologies.   The big data era will require large  quantities of diverse semiconductors  as well as even higher performance.  Technological innovation in semicon- ductors to increase storage capacity,  processing speed, power efficiency and  reliability will continue. exceed US$1 trillion4 in 2030. This is  like saying that, on top of the existing  market, which has developed over the  approximately 70 years since the  invention of the transistor, another,  even larger market will be created in  a single decade. We are now right on  the verge of a massive growth oppor- tunity. As long as the semiconductor  market continues to grow, the semi- conductor production equipment  market that underlies it will steadily  grow as well. As I mentioned, Tokyo  Electron recorded net sales of over ¥1  trillion for a third consecutive year in  fiscal 2020, and we expect sales to  continue to grow going forward.   Against this backdrop, the global  semiconductor market, which reached  US$412.3 billion3 in 2019, is forecast to   Furthermore, alongside the evolu- tion of semiconductors, displays,  which translate data into visual form,  are evolving too. New applications  being created by high definition, higher  power efficiency, increased display size  and designs leveraging flexible struc- tures are, in turn, driving technological  innovation. As a result, display applica- tions are expanding beyond the con- cept of the mere monitor. As long as  efforts to make displays more beauti- ful and easier to use continue, techno- logical innovation will continue. Like  semiconductors, the importance of  displays as a form of infrastructure in  society is increasing, and we expect  further growth going forward. 2  CAGR 26% is CISCO forecast for 2017-2022. Could you go over the medium-term management plan’s  financial model and the measures Tokyo Electron is taking  to achieve them? The medium-term management plan  announced in May 2019 comprises   targets for fiscal 2024 under three  scenarios. Given the business environ- ment, as we’ve been discussing, we  expect the WFE market to grow to  US$65–70 billion within four years and  are targeting net sales of ¥2 trillion, an  operating margin of over 30% and  ROE of over 30%. However, we have  also included two downside scenarios  to ensure that we can steadily gener- ate profit and provide returns to  stakeholders if the WFE market does  not grow as anticipated due to the  macro economy or changes in the  semiconductor supply balance. As  such, the financial model is designed  to capture as much growth potential  as possible while steadily reinforcing  Tokyo Electron’s financial strength.  To achieve the targets, we will fully  leverage our 100% market share in  mass production EUV coater/develop- ers and reinforce product competitive- ness in the key fields of etch, deposition  and cleaning, where we expect major  market growth going forward.  Furthermore, in the field solutions  business (encompassing sales of parts  and used equipment, modifications and maintenance services), which  boasts wide profit margins, we will  leverage our installed base of more  than 72,000 units, the largest in the  industry, to achieve steady growth.  Few companies in the world have  the diverse management resources to  meet leading-edge technological Operating   margin 26.5% 28% >30% needs like Tokyo Electron. Utilizing all  these resources, we will contribute to  society by creating high-value-added  technologies never seen before. Please tell us about your management philosophy as CEO. In terms of management philosophy,  Tokyo Electron has the Corporate  Philosophy, which defines its reason  for existence and social mission, as  well as the Management Policies, eight  general rules of management for  achieving the Corporate Philosophy. I  think that the judicious management  decisions made by its leaders over the  decades based on these are a major  reason that Tokyo Electron has grown  to where it is today. With this in mind,  I try to always approach management  with due consideration for the happi- ness of our shareholders, customers,  and employees and their families. That  is to say, I strive to generate world- class profit, creating value, to bring  Management Policies The Management Policies highlight the management values that Tokyo Electron regards as essential to  achieving the objectives defined in its Corporate Philosophy. They express the logic that underscores our  eight general rules of management.   Profit is Essential The TEL Group aims to contribute to the development  of society and industry and to the enhancement of  corporate value while continually pursuing profit.   Growth Philosophy We will tirelessly take on the challenges of technologi- cal innovation to achieve continuous growth through  business expansion and market creation.   Employees The TEL Group’s employees both create and fulfill  company values, performing their work with cre- ativity, a sense of responsibility, and a commitment  to teamwork.   Safety, Health, and the Environment The TEL Group gives the highest consideration to  the safety and health of every person connected  with our business activities as well as to the   global environment. happiness to all of our stakeholders  through business activities.  In addition, those at the helm of  corporate management must be  aware of their company’s core compe- tence, take a medium- to long-term  perspective, understand market envi- ronment trends and changes, and  respond appropriately.   As I said, technological innovation in  semiconductors and displays will con- tinue. As long as technological innova- tion continues, the markets will grow.  Tokyo Electron thus stands at the edge  of tremendous future growth potential  in these markets. To capture as much of  this potential as possible, we will throw  our full weight into developing next   Scope of Business The TEL Group leads markets by providing high- quality products in leading-edge technology fields  with a focus on electronics.   Quality and Service The TEL Group strives to understand the true needs  to achieve customer satisfaction and secure cus- tomer trust while continuously improving quality  and service.   Organizations The TEL Group builds optimal organizations that  maximize corporate value in which all employees  can realize their full potential.   Social Responsibility Feeling a strong sense of corporate social responsi- bility, we strive to gain the esteem of society and  to be a company where our employees are proud  to work. generation products. We will pursue  Tokyo Electron’s core competence— providing added value to customers  through the Best Products and Best  Service on the market to steadfastly  put into action our Corporate  Philosophy: “We strive to contribute to  the development of a dream-inspiring  society through our leading-edge tech- nologies and reliable service and sup- port.” It will be our employees who  make this happen. Employees are the  source of value creation, and increasing  employee motivation is crucial.   Employee motivation is determined  by many factors, including expecta- tions and dreams for the Company’s  future, fair human resource systems that recognize employee effort, com- petitive compensation that is com- mensurate with results, relationships  of trust with management and super- visors, and an open corporate culture.  To that end, I strive to share my vision  for the Company and initiatives to  achieve it with all our employees.  Whenever possible, I also value the  opportunity to visit our factories and  other sites around the world to hear  from employees about issues at our  front lines. Also, as profits increase,  employees are better able to follow  their dreams and take on challenges in  pursuit of growth without fear of   failure, creating a virtuous cycle that  further increases motivation.  leading-edge technology products  and the best technical services to  pursue continued profit, increase  corporate value and bring happiness  to our shareholders, customers,  employees and their families, and  everyone else related to Tokyo  Electron—that is my management  philosophy.   The spread of COVID-19 has affected  the world in many ways. Tokyo  Electron’s social mission and responsi- bility of helping to build a strong,   resilient society will only grow more  important in the future. Providing Segment profit corresponds to income before income  taxes on the consolidated statements of income. Segment Net Sales 0 1,055.2 29.8 1,166.7 Segment Proﬁt Margin 18 19 20 28.0 1,060.9 94.1% Investment by logic chip manufacturers and foundries in expanding production capacity for  leading-edge technologies was robust, reflecting growth in demand for high-performance pro- cessors used in data centers and 5G smartphones. In contrast, memory chip manufacturers’  investment underwent an adjustment following several years of investment to increase produc- tion capacity. As a result, the global market for wafer fab equipment (WFE),1 which had seen  uninterrupted growth since 2013, shrank 8% year on year to about US$55 billion. The transition to a data-driven society is accelerating, reflecting the adoption of IoT, AI and 5G,  as well as the growing use of remote work arrangements, distance learning and remote medi- cine. Accordingly, demand for the semiconductors that enable such a society is expected to  expand over the medium to long term. Within the SPE market, Tokyo Electron particularly  expects ongoing innovation and market expansion in etch, deposition and cleaning systems, and  has designated these as its three key fields. By differentiating our technologies and services in  these fields, we aim to grow sales and profit.  As the scaling of DRAM and logic chips continues and the number of layers in 3D NAND  increases, the use of new materials and increasingly complex device structures are creating  greater technological challenges. To turn these business opportunities into growth, in the area of  etch, we will strengthen our competitive advantage based on process performance and produc- tivity in HARC,2 interconnects and patterning processes. In deposition, we boast technologies for  batch, semi-batch and single wafer processes and will leverage this strength to offer optimal  deposition methods while advancing the development of technologies for new materials. In  cleaning, we will provide technologies to reduce fine pattern collapse and remove foreign parti- cles and residue that degrade yields. In these ways, Tokyo Electron seeks to expand its SAM3  share in its three key fields.  In the markets for power devices and discrete semiconductors for IoT and automotive applications,  which are expected to see continued growth, we will increase our market share by introducing reengi- neered equipment leveraging technological assets from products we previously manufactured.  Furthermore, the importance of co-optimizing multiple processes is growing, creating greater  needs for services that help increase uptime and yields. Tokyo Electron will leverage the insights  provided by its diverse product lineup to conduct joint development with customers from the  early stages of each new technology node. By doing so, we aim to be at the forefront in offering  integration technologies that realize co-optimization. In addition, by providing services with  higher added value, such as remote equipment maintenance and equipment diagnostics using  AI, we aim to achieve further business growth. Segment net sales came to ¥1,060.9 billion. While net sales and profit fell year on year due to  the contraction of the WFE market, both exceeded forecasts. The segment profit margin decreased from 28.0% in the previous fiscal year to 25.5%, as we  continued forward-looking aggressive investment aimed at medium- and long-term growth in  the midst of the adjustment in the WFE market. on wafers and inspected, and back-end production, in which wafers are cut into chips, assembled and inspected again. WFE refers to  the production equipment used in front-end production and in wafer-level packaging production. manufacturers and foundries grew. the growth in investment by logic chip manufacturers and foundries. modifications and maintenance services) rose 5.7% year on year. Sales of parts and services  remained firm due to growth in the installed base and the high utilization rate of customers’ fabs. Segment profit corresponds to income before income  taxes on the consolidated statements of income. 111.2 16.0 66.0 Capital investment in generation 10.5 panel for LCD TVs remained strong. However, investment  in OLED display softened, reflecting the end of a cycle of investment in the previous year.  Although investment in generation 6 panels for OLED display began to improve in the second  half of 2020, on a full-year basis, the equipment market for TFT array processes,1 in which Tokyo  Electron operates, shrank 25% year on year to about US$6.5 billion. In the FPD market, efforts to enhance display resolution, functionality and design are expected  to drive continued technological innovation. In response to increasingly advanced technological  requirements, Tokyo Electron aims to achieve differentiation using its superior process technolo- gies to expand its market share and raise the operating margin to 30%.  In small- and medium-sized panels for mobile devices, in addition to such technologies as  LTPS2 and IGZO3 that enable even greater resolution, self-lighting OLED display and foldable  devices made with flexible displays are expected to gain broader utilization going forward. These  changes will drive an increase in the number of masks and dry etch processes as well as a need  for more precise patterning. Tokyo Electron will further enhance the performance of its dry etch  systems and coater/developers to leverage these expanding business opportunities and achieve  business growth.  Looking at large-sized display, a shift from LCD to OLED is expected across a wide range of  applications, including TVs, high-end monitors, and displays installed in vehicles and public plac- es. Tokyo Electron will maintain its competitive advantage in generation 10.5 panels while  expanding its PICP™4 etch systems, which provide superior processing uniformity, to generation  8.5 and 10.5 panels.   Tokyo Electron has released inkjet printing systems, previously marketed only for generation  8.5 and 4.5 panels, for generation 2 panel development lines in order to accelerate technological  development aimed at adoption for mass production. Our customers have been evaluating the  inkjet printing system. In the medium to long term, we aim to further improve profitability  based on differentiation in dry etch systems and coater/developers as well as the contributions  of inkjet printing systems. Segment net sales fell 40.6% year on year to ¥66.0 billion. This was mainly because the market  contracted 25% year on year and some sales were delayed due to the impact of COVID-19. The segment profit margin decreased 5.8 percentage points from the previous fiscal year to  16.0%. While the profit margin fell with net sales, efforts to secure downward flexibility helped  maintain profitability. Five years have passed since the introduction of Japan’s  Corporate Governance Code, and companies are now focusing  their governance on further enhancing board effectiveness in  order to increase shareholder value on an ongoing basis. Using  the Audit & Supervisory Board System, Tokyo Electron seeks to implement aggressive governance based on fast, bold decision  making in order to attain world-class profitability and capital  efficiency while also reinforcing careful, prudent governance to  ensure management transparency and fairness.   In fiscal 2020, we continued to create numerous oppor- tunities for our corporate directors and Audit & Supervisory  Board members to discuss a wide range of important mat- ters beyond the Board of Directors meeting agenda items.  Some discussions focused on initiatives going forward,  based on a shared awareness that, in addition to reinforc- ing corporate governance, we must build a world-class,  integrated governance, risk management and compliance  (GRC) system covering the entire Group, including overseas sites. Considering the medium term, we shared information  about progress toward the targets of the financial model  under the medium-term management plan, as well as the  remaining hurdles. From a long-term perspective, we delib- erated business areas where we can leverage Tokyo  Electron’s strengths and the Company’s future direction.  We also actively discussed CSR initiatives related to ESG  issues and the Sustainable Development Goals, considering  the growing importance of non-financial value. Going   forward, we will continue discussions aimed at growth over  the medium to long term in order to enhance the effective- ness of the Board of Directors in its roles of establishing  management strategy and vision and making major opera- tional decisions based on strategic direction.  To enhance management transparency and fairness, in  fiscal 2020 an outside director was appointed to chair the  Compensation Committee, further enhancing the commit- tee’s independence. Looking at the composition of the  Board of Directors, we made progress in terms of the  Board’s gender diversity and discussed the appropriate ratio of outside directors on the Board. In fiscal 2021,  we continue to benefit from the advice of our incumbent  outside directors: Mr. Charles Ditmars Lake II, an American  national and executive at an American life insurance com- pany; Mr. Michio Sasaki, who served for many years as pres- ident of Keyence, a corporation well known for being highly  profitable; and Ms. Makiko Eda, Chief Representative Officer  at World Economic Forum Japan. We have also welcomed  two new outside Audit & Supervisory Board members,  Mr. Masataka Hama, who brings wide-ranging insight into  global capital markets, and Mr. Ryota Miura, who boasts  a wealth of experience as an attorney at law, primarily in the  area of corporate law. The addition of these two members  has further enhanced the Company’s audit functions. Our  sixteen corporate directors and Audit & Supervisory Board  members (including six outside members) engage in brisk,  open and constructive discussion based on their diverse  insights and experience with a strong awareness of Tokyo  Electron’s corporate culture, further enhancing the   effectiveness of the Board of Directors.   The importance of data and networks is growing, driven  by the adoption of IoT, AI and 5G, as well as the growing  use of remote work arrangements and teleconferencing as  a result of the spread of COVID-19. These changes in   lifestyles and business rely on semiconductors and FPDs,  which are in turn taking on ever greater roles. Accordingly,  the production equipment market, in which Tokyo Electron  operates, is expected to continue expanding. As chairman,  I will continue doing my utmost to contribute to sustain- able growth and the medium- to long-term enhancement  of shareholder value in this growing market. In an environment where over 80% of our sales come from over- seas, Tokyo Electron regards maintaining governance as essential to  becoming a truly global company that achieves sustainable growth.  To that end, Tokyo Electron strives to build frameworks to maxi- mize the use of its worldwide resources. In addition to strengthen- ing its management platform and technology base, the Company  maintains a governance structure that will enable it to attain  world-class profitability.  Tokyo Electron uses the Audit & Supervisory Board System,  which consists of a Board of Directors and an Audit & Supervisory  Board. Effective governance is achieved based on the supervision  of management by the Audit & Supervisory Board. Roles and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors works to achieve sustainable growth and  increase corporate value over the medium to long term based on its  fiduciary responsibility to shareholders. The roles and responsibilities  of the Board of Directors are as follows:  (1)  Establishing management strategy and vision  (2)  Making major operational decisions based on strategic direction  (3) Engaging in constructive, open-minded debate  The Board of Directors seeks the active participation of those  present in discussions in order to obtain a wide range of opinions,  and supervises management and operational execution based on  active debate. Does Tokyo Electron have these major components of corporate governance?  (As of July, 2020) The Board of Directors respects minority or opposing view- points, including opinions voiced by outside directors; revises the  conditions for implementation or the content of proposals as nec- essary; and engages in extensive debate with the goal of reaching  decisions based on consensus. However, emphasis is placed on  making necessary decisions quickly to avoid missing opportunities. Board Size and Independent Outside Directors Tokyo Electron considers it essential to maintain a Board of  Directors with the appropriate size to ensure high quality, active  debate; a robust balance of knowledge, experience and skills  among both executive directors and independent outside direc- tors; and diversity, including gender and nationality. The current  Board of Directors consists of 11 corporate directors, including one  woman and one foreign national, and Tokyo Electron believes this  to be the appropriate size, at present, to achieve a good balance in  terms of knowledge, experience and skills.  The active expression of opinions, not only by independent outside  directors, but also by Audit & Supervisory Board members, is the cor- nerstone that supports the sound decision making of the Board of  Directors. Currently, six out of the 16 participants in the Board of  Directors meetings, including the Audit & Supervisory Board members,  are outside members, consisting of three independent outside direc- tors and three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. Board of  Directors meetings currently achieve an appropriate sense of produc- tive tension and constructive debate essential for making operational  decisions due to the combined presence of executive directors,  who are highly knowledgeable about Tokyo Electron’s businesses,  and outside members, who provide objectivity. Nominations for Corporate Director and CEO Tokyo Electron has established a Nomination Committee to ensure  fairness and efficacy in management. The Nomination Committee has  the authority to propose the appointment and removal of corpo- rate directors or the CEO and proposes corporate director candi- dates to the Board of Directors prior to their election at the  General Meeting of Shareholders and also nominates CEO candi- dates for appointment by the Board of Directors. The Nomination  Committee is composed of four corporate directors, including one  outside director; the CEO is not a member of the committee.   In addition, to develop the next generation of management and  executive human resources, the Nomination Committee carefully  surveys and analyzes the status of the successor pool, then reports  to the Board of Directors, which provides appropriate supervision  to ensure that adequate time and resources are being devoted to  implementing the successor development plan. Corporate Director and CEO Compensation Tokyo Electron’s compensation policy prioritizes the following  considerations.  (1)  Globally competitive compensation levels and systems that In line with this policy, Tokyo Electron maintains a  Compensation Committee to ensure management transparency  and fairness as well as the appropriateness of compensation and  has adopted a director compensation system that is closely linked  to performance and shareholder value.  The Compensation Committee is composed of four corporate  directors, including two outside directors and excluding the repre- sentative directors. From fiscal 2020, the committee is chaired by an  outside director. The Compensation Committee utilizes advice from  external experts and conducts an analysis and comparison of com- pensation and related factors at companies in similar industries in  and outside Japan. Based on this analysis, the committee proposes  to the Board of Directors a policy and system for the compensation  of the corporate directors and executive officers that will be globally  competitive and optimally suited to the Company as well as individ- ual compensation amounts for the representative directors.  The compensation of corporate directors (excluding the outside  directors) comprises fixed basic compensation, annual performance- linked compensation and medium-term performance-linked   compensation.  In principle, annual performance-linked compensation consists  of cash bonuses and stock compensation-based stock options; the ratio of these two components is roughly 1:1. Stock compensation- based stock options are awarded with the exercise price set at one  yen per share, and a three-year exercise restriction period from  the date of allotment of rights before the options may be exercised.  In order to incentivize the improvement of corporate performance,  Tokyo Electron has designated net income attributable to owners of  the parent and return on equity (ROE) as the main benchmarks for  calculating annual performance-linked compensation.  The medium-term performance-linked compensation utilizes  performance shares (share-based compensation) with the aim of  using shareholdings to align the perspectives of corporate direc- tors with those of shareholders and incentivize corporate directors  to increase corporate value. The number of Tokyo Electron shares  issued to corporate directors varies according to the payout rate  based on the responsibilities and level of performance goal  achievement over the relevant three-year term. The operating  margin and ROE are used as indicators to assess the attainment of  performance targets and appropriately link compensation with the  medium-term enhancement of corporate value.  The compensation of outside directors comprises fixed basic  compensation and non-performance-linked stock-based compen- sation. Non-performance-linked stock-based compensation was  adopted from fiscal 2020 to create a compensation system better  suited to the outside directors’ role of providing advice aimed at  enhancing corporate value over the medium to long term in addi- tion to management supervision. Under this system, stock is grant- ed after the expiration of the applicable period of three fiscal years. Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors To evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including  the Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee, Tokyo  Electron conducts a question-based survey of all corporate direc- tors and Audit & Supervisory Board members as well as individual  interviews with some of them.  In fiscal 2020, Tokyo Electron again hired a third-party institu- tion to provide advice on the selection of the items to be evaluat- ed, hold the interviews, and compile and analyze the results. Using  the compiled data and analysis, the outside directors and outside  Audit & Supervisory Board members held discussions of the Board  of Director’s effectiveness. These findings were then shared with  and discussed by the entire Board of Directors, which deliberated  and comprehensively evaluated its effectiveness and disclosed  a summary of the results.  At meetings of the Board of Directors, corporate directors and  Audit & Supervisory Board members actively engage in discussion  based on their diverse viewpoints and experiences. Each matter is  reviewed and deliberated in depth, leading to effective policy and  conclusions from the perspective of sustainably increasing corpo- rate value. The evaluation found that positive initiatives and  improvements were moving forward. For example, the diversity of the Board of Directors is advancing in terms of gender, the Board  of Directors discusses the appropriate ratio of outside directors,  and matters that are important in the medium and long term are  discussed at off-site meetings. These matters include manage- ment strategy, risk management, Group governance and corporate  social responsibility (CSR).   Tokyo Electron thus concludes that in general its Board of  Directors is effectively ensuring that the key roles of the Board of  Directors are being fulfilled, namely (1) Establishing management  strategy and vision and (2) Making major operational decisions  based on strategic direction, as prescribed in the Tokyo Electron  Corporate Governance Guidelines. In addition, Tokyo Electron recog- nizes that the Board of Directors, including the Nomination  Committee and Compensation Committee, is functioning effectively.  Based on the results of this evaluation, the Board of Directors  will strive to secure ample opportunities and time for enhancing  discussion of medium- and long-term management strategy while  working to further reinforce risk management and Group gover- nance. In addition, the Board of Directors will review the composi- tion of the Nomination Committee to enhance its objectivity and  examine how the committee relates to the board. It will also work  to reinforce dialog with stakeholders with greater awareness of  environment, social and governance (ESG) issues and the United  Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Audit & Supervisory Board currently consists of five members  and includes three outside members. Two members are full-time.  The full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members collect informa- tion through onsite surveys, and the board maintains appropriate  coordination with the Internal Audit Department and the indepen- dent auditors as part of a structure that enables Audit &  Supervisory Board members to obtain all information necessary  for audits.  Moreover, the composition of Audit & Supervisory Board mem- bers provides a good balance of knowledge required for opera- tional audits and accounting audits, including financial and  accounting knowledge, legal knowledge, and audit experience at  other companies. Tokyo Electron thus believes its Audit &  Supervisory Board members are able to perform their auditing  functions effectively.  Tokyo Electron’s full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members  concurrently serve as Audit & Supervisory Board members of key  subsidiaries, enhancing audit effectiveness. In addition, all of Tokyo  Electron’s Audit & Supervisory Board members, the Audit &  Supervisory Board members of its subsidiaries, the head of the  Internal Audit Department, and the head of the Risk Management  Department hold Group Audit & Supervisory Board member  meetings to share information and exchange opinions. In these  ways, Tokyo Electron maintains a Group-wide audit system. Approach to Risk Management Reflecting changes in society and the business environment, the  risks facing businesses are growing increasingly complex and  diverse. Tokyo Electron considers understanding and appropriately  addressing the risks that it may face in its businesses, as well as  their impacts, to be essential to its sustainable growth. Risk Management System and Initiatives In order to promote more effective risk management, Tokyo  Electron carries out enterprise risk management1 through a body  established within the General Affairs Department at its headquar- ters. This body works with the respective departments responsible  for each operation to identify a wide range of risks arising in   corporate activities (such as compliance risk, human resource and  labor risk, and business continuity risk). It then classifies risks with  high impact and probability as key risks within the Tokyo Electron  Group. The body also formulates and executes measures to mini- mize these key risks, monitors the effect of said measures, works  to understand the status of risk control and implements the PDCA  cycle for risk management. In fiscal 2020, in addition to these  activities, the body conducted interviews with the responsible  departments at the corporate headquarters, and Japanese and  overseas subsidiaries to understand the status of risk manage- ment. From fiscal 2021 onward, it also plans to enhance the vari- ous functions and systems of risk management and internal audits  to further promote highly effective risk management activities.  The status of these activities is regularly reported to the Board of  Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board. Auditing by the Internal Audit Department The Global Audit Center serves as the internal audit department  for the entire Group and implements audits based on the audit  plan. Based on the results of these audits, it provides instructions  for making improvements as needed, confirms the progress of  these improvements, and provides any necessary support. The  Group’s internal control over financial reporting in fiscal 2020 was  also evaluated as effective by the independent auditors. Risk Management Initiatives Each year, Tokyo Electron identifies key risks for the Group and  steadily works to reduce those risks. In fiscal 2020, we reinforced  measures in the following areas. businesses to continuously create innovation and to provide high  value-added products and services. While actively investing in  research and development of leading-edge technologies to  enhance its own research and development capabilities, Tokyo  Electron is also focusing on collaboration with Japanese and inter- national consortiums. In addition, we are sharing technology road- maps with our customers and collaborating with them in the early  stages of development to ensure our research and development  activities properly reflect future needs. Going forward, we will   continue to drive technological development for the next genera- tion through a Group-wide development structure for collabora- tion between the Development & Production Divisions and  Business Divisions. Supply Chain Management For manufacturers of semiconductor and flat panel display pro- duction equipment, implementation of sustainable supply chain  management is an essential part of such activities as develop- ment, production and providing services. To prepare for disrup- tions to the procurement of important parts or production due to  earthquakes or other natural disasters, Tokyo Electron works, on  an ongoing basis, to establish alternative production structures  within its network and to develop a multisource system for impor- tant parts. In addition to formulating business continuity plans  (BCPs) and holding regular drills, we are building seismically isolat- ed production buildings, adopting appropriate inventory controls,  and taking other steps to establish stable product supply systems. Information Security With information security becoming increasingly important as  more and more of society is data-driven, it is equally important  that companies work to improve their information literacy and  build robust information infrastructure. Tokyo Electron is focusing  on information security risk from the two perspectives of cyber- security and confidential information management. To improve  cybersecurity, we use a combination of industry-leading security  systems, provide security training for employees, and work to pro- tect our information from the sabotage of our servers or comput- ers as well as data theft, data manipulation and other forms of  cyberattack. The information security environment, including  cyberattack methods, is continually changing. Tokyo Electron is  always working to stay ahead of these changes and formulating  and implementing the necessary countermeasures on a global  basis. To improve confidential information management, our  Human Resources Department and Intellectual Property Department  work in close collaboration to strengthen measures to prevent leaks of  confidential information, particularly targeting employees who retire  or resign to ensure proper management of confidential information,  including the return and destruction of data. Approach to Compliance Stakeholder trust is essential to business activities. In order to  maintain this trust, it is essential to continuously ensure compliance  and enhance corporate ethics. The Code of Ethics of the Tokyo  Electron Group establishes the “appropriate actions to be taken” in  conducting business operations in an honest and fair manner in  accordance with the laws and regulations of the countries and  regions in which the Tokyo Electron Group operates as well as with  internal regulations and rules, and stipulates that all executives and  employees must understand and apply the Code of Ethics. Compliance System In order to strengthen our compliance system and to ensure effi- cacy, people responsible for compliance (Regional Compliance  Controllers) have been appointed at key overseas sites, creating  a system for direct reporting to the newly established Chief  Compliance Officer and Compliance Department. The primary role  of the Compliance Department is to formulate and review practi- cal compliance programs for the Tokyo Electron Group, establish  and implement corporate ethics, plan and implement education  and training, and establish and operate internal reporting systems. Compliance Initiatives Corporate Ethics In addition to establishing the Code of Ethics as common and  minimum standards of conduct by which all executives and  employees should abide, we have also established a Business  Ethics Committee for the purpose of promoting and raising aware- ness of compliance and corporate ethics more effectively within  the Tokyo Electron Group. We have also set up the Disciplinary  Committee as a subordinate organization of the Business Ethics  Committee for the purpose of ensuring that reasonable and  appropriate punishments are imposed and proper procedures   followed when taking disciplinary action.   To ensure awareness of the Code of Ethics, we arrange to trans- late it into five languages for local use, including Japanese, and dis- tribute it in the form of a booklet to all executives and employees.  In fiscal 2021, the Code of Ethics will be revised. In addition to  reflecting standards required as a global company, we will add a  number of new provisions on such important issues as personal  data protection, information security and money laundering. The  revisions, including changes to the booklet design and adoption of  a bullet point format, will be made in pursuit of clarity and usability.  We strive to further strengthen compliance and corporate ethics by  annually obtaining confirmation from all executives and employees  that they understand and comply with the Code of Ethics. Global Policies on Anti-Bribery and Competition Laws In fiscal 2021, we will establish common global policies on anti- bribery and competition laws. Under our anti-bribery policy, we will review our standards concerning gifts, entertainment and  donations, and we will thoroughly enforce a process requiring pre- approval if undertaking conduct outside these standards. As for  our policy on competition laws, we will compile different types of  violations in an easy-to-understand format, based on applicable  laws and regulations in the countries and regions in which we  operate.  Compliance Training We conduct online and face-to-face training adapted to different  levels for all employees.1 In fiscal 2021, we will deploy a more com- prehensive and systematic training program and advance multilin- gual support to reinforce efforts to foster compliance awareness  and behavior-oriented awareness-building activities in the Tokyo  Electron Group. Internal Reporting System As a means for employees to provide information and seek redress  outside the chain of command about behavior that is, or may be, in  violation of laws, regulations or corporate ethics, we have estab- lished internal reporting mechanisms that ensure confidentiality,  anonymity and the prohibition of retribution. Apart from an inter- nal point of contact that can also be accessed by suppliers, our  reporting mechanisms include an external point of contact at a  law firm that can be contacted directly. In March 2020, we  enhanced the internal reporting system, and renamed Tokyo  Electron Group Ethics & Compliance Hotline—a global common  point of contact that uses a third-party system—thereby ensuring  a greater level of confidentiality and anonymity. This hotline can  be accessed via phone or a dedicated website 24 hours a day, 365  days a year, and accommodates all languages used by employees.  In the event of a report or request for advice, the Tokyo Electron  Group undertakes an investigation in accordance with internal  regulations. If, as a result, a compliance violation is found, a disci- plinary action is imposed in accordance with the Rules of  Employment.2 Preventive measures and corrective measures, such  as improvements to the workplace environment, are also imple- mented as necessary.   In fiscal 2020, a total of 64 cases were received via internal  reporting mechanisms (excluding overseas subsidiaries), primarily  concerning harassment, attendance management and work envi- ronment. Among these, there were no reports or cases of non- compliance with laws, regulations, or the Code of Ethics that could  have had a material impact on the Tokyo Electron Group’s business  or local communities. export compliance, insider trading prevention, the Act for Subcontracting and the prevention of  harassment. Some training is limited to certain employees. exempted in the event the employee involved in a compliance violation has made a report or  sought advice on his/her own volition. Basic Stance Tokyo Electron endeavors to provide opportunities for construc- tive dialog with as many investors around the world as possible to  contribute to the Company’s sustainable growth and increase cor- porate value over the medium and long term. Furthermore, to the  extent that this is reasonable and possible, the Company places  emphasis on having the Chairman of the Board and CEO commu- nicate with investors through direct dialog. IR Activities Striving to maintain dialog with investors, Tokyo Electron main- tains a dedicated Investor Relations Department under the direct  control of the CEO. The Chairman of the Board and CEO serve as  spokespersons for the Company at such events as earnings  release conferences for securities analysts and institutional inves- tors, IR conferences in and outside Japan, and individual meetings.  The spokespersons for the IR Department hold individual meet- ings with investors and periodically relay the opinions of investors  at these events to the Chairman of the Board and CEO so that  feedback can be of use in management. ment indices, including DJSI1 Asia Pacific 2019, FTSE4Good Index,2 FTSE Blossom Japan Index,3 MSCI World ESG Leaders  Indexes,4 MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index,5 and MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN).6 Furthermore, for a second consecutive year, Tokyo Electron was recognized as a White 500 company under the  2020 Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization Recognition Program7 administered  jointly by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. This year, the recognition was given  not only to Tokyo Electron, but shared with all its domestic Group companies. 1  DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices): ESG investment indices operated by U.S.-based S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. The DSJI Asia Pacific covers companies in that region. 2  FTSE4Good Index: An index related to environmental performance and corporate social responsibility developed by the UK-based FTSE Russell 3  FTSE Blossom Japan Index: An index that reflects the performance of Japanese companies that have demonstrated strong ESG practices 4   MSCI World ESG Leaders Indexes: Companies that have high ESG performance are selected from the MSCI Global Sustainability Index, an ESG investment index developed by Morgan Stanley Capital 6   MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN): An index developed by MSCI featuring companies with excellent gender diversity selected from its parent index (MSCI Japan IMI Top 700 Index). 7   White 500: A system for recognizing companies implementing especially outstanding health and productivity management based on initiatives to address local health issues or the health promo- 8   Please check the link for the logo’s disclaimer. www.tel.com/csr/review/ International (MSCI) float-adjusted market capitalization). The index targets 50% of the free float-adjusted market capitalization within each GICS® sector of the parent index. tion initiatives of Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Based on the results of the Survey on Health and Productivity Management, the top 500 companies in the large enterprise category are designated as the  White 500. For details on Tokyo Electron’s ESG-related initiatives, please refer to our Sustainability Report 2020. Shareholders’ Meeting Tokyo Electron schedules its shareholders’ meeting to avoid days  on which many such meetings are concentrated as part of its  measures to vitalize these meetings and to promote smooth and  efficient voting. The Company also mails a Notice of Annual  General Meeting of Shareholders to shareholders more than three  weeks in advance of the meeting and discloses notices on its  website before they are mailed, striving to provide shareholders  with information as early as possible. Shareholders are free to cast  their votes via the internet, and Tokyo Electron participates in the  web based voting platform for institutional investors operated by  ICJ, Inc.  To supplement the above shareholder meeting-related initia- tives, Tokyo Electron’s website carries the resolutions, voting  results and presentation materials of shareholders’ meetings. For more details on our corporate governance, please refer to the Tokyo Electron  Corporate Governance Guidelines.  www.tel.com/about/cg/ Charles Ditmars Lake II* Corporate Director   Chairman and Representative   Director, Aflac Life Insurance   Japan Ltd.   President, Aflac International   Incorporated  Outside Director,   Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. Michio Sasaki* Corporate Director   Outside Director,   ZUIKO CO., LTD.  Outside Director   (Audit & Supervisory  Committee Member),   SHIFT, Inc. Toshiki Kawai President & CEO,   GM, Corporate Innovation Division Sadao Sasaki EVP & GM, Development & Production   1st Division, Development & Production   4th Division, EHS, Quality, Procurement,  Production Technology   President, Tokyo Electron Technology  Solutions Ltd. Yoshikazu Nunokawa EVP & GM, Global Business Platform Division  (Finance, Export & Logistics Control, IT,  Information Security, Intellectual Property)  Finance Division, Internal Control Tatsuya Nagakubo SVP & GM, Deputy GM, Global Business  Platform Division (Human Resources,   General Affairs, CSR, Branding, Legal,  Compliance) GM, Human Resources, General Affairs, CSR,  Branding Division, Legal, Compliance Division,  Chairman of Ethics Committee Toshihiko Nishigaki VP & GM, Deputy GM,  Corporate Innovation Division   (Digital Transformation)  Masayuki Kojima VP & GM, Development & Production   2nd Division   President, Tokyo Electron Miyagi Ltd. Shinichi Hayashi VP & GM, Development & Production  3rd Division, Deputy GM, Corporate  Innovation Division  President, Tokyo Electron Kyushu Ltd. Shingo Tada VP & GM, Deputy GM, Account Sales Division Masahiro Morita VP & GM, Account Sales, Global Sales Operating Environment The overall world economy in fiscal 2020 continued to grad- ually expand, with the United States economy remaining  solid and the recovery continuing in Europe, despite slowing  growth due to such factors as Brexit-related concerns and  weakness in China and other parts of Asia.   Demand for memory chips, which had been a major factor  behind slowing investment in semiconductor production  equipment (SPE), gradually improved. Although investment  in memory chip underwent adjustment, as memory prices  bottomed out, investment began to pick up near the end of  the fiscal year. In contrast, investment by logic chip manufac- turers and foundries grew considerably, reflecting growth in  demand for high-performance microprocessors for personal  computers and data centers as well as next generation appli- cation processors for 5G smartphones in conjunction with  efforts to realize a data-driven society, which are expected to  ramp up from 2020. Furthermore, demand for power devic- es, discreet devices and other semiconductors that utilize  mature technologies increased. Accordingly, although invest- ment in memory chip was restrained, the wafer fab equip- ment market remained strong, at over US$50 billion for a  third consecutive year.   In the display market, although investment in large gener- ation 10.5 panels for LCD TVs remained strong, a slowdown in  shipments of mobile devices led to adjustment in investment  in small- and medium-sized panels for OLED display.  Accordingly, the market for flat panel display (FPD) produc- tion equipment shrank approximately 25% year on year. Sales and Income 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Net sales ¥663,949 ¥799,719 ¥1,130,728 ¥1,278,240 ¥1,127,286 Gross profit 267,210 322,291 475,032 526,183 451,941 Gross profit margin 40.2% 40.3% 42.0% 41.2% 40.1% Selling, general and administrative expenses 150,421 166,594 193,860 215,612 214,649 Operating income 116,789 155,697 281,172 310,571 237,292 Operating margin 17.6% 19.5% 24.9% 24.3% 21.0% Income before income taxes  106,467 149,116 275,242 321,508 244,626 Net income attributable to owners of parent 77,892 115,208 204,371 248,228 185,206 with semiconductors, however, demand for displays began to  recover in the second half of the year. In 2020, the FPD pro- duction equipment market is expected to grow driven by the  demand for OLED displays for mobile. Sales  Net sales in fiscal 2020 came to ¥1,127.2 billion, down 11.8%  year on year but surpassing the forecast despite concerns  about the impact of COVID-19 in early 2020, reflecting recov- ery in capital investment for semiconductors and FPDs. By  segment, net sales in the SPE segment fell 9.1% year on year  to ¥1,060.9 billion. Net sales in the FPD production equip- ment segment decreased 40.6% year on year to ¥66.0 billion.  For details on performance by segment, please refer to  Review of Operations and Business Outlook on page 7.  Furthermore, net sales in the field solutions business (encom- passing sales of parts and used equipment, modifications and  maintenance services) rose 5.7% year on year to ¥304.8 bil- lion, accounting for 27.0% of consolidated net sales. Gross Profit and Operating Income Gross profit in fiscal 2020 was down 14.1% year on year to  ¥451.9 billion, reflecting the decrease in net sales. The gross  profit margin fell 1.1 percentage points to 40.1%, due to an  increase in the production cost ratio as a result of the  decrease in net sales. The operating margin similarly declined  3.3 percentage points to 21.0%. This was mainly due to an  increase in the R&D expense ratio as a result of continued  aggressive investment to maximize future growth opportunities  even during this period of customer investment adjustment. R&D Expenses R&D expenses were up ¥6.2 billion year on year to ¥120.2 bil- lion, a record high, due in large part to the continued rein- forcement of R&D in the fields of etch, deposition and  cleaning systems, in which the Company is working to  expand its market share. The ratio of R&D expenses to net  sales rose 1.8 percentage points to 10.7%. The Corporate  Innovation Division also engaged in the development of  equipment and processes in new fields in order to create  markets. Furthermore, we are proactively developing new  applications leveraging IoT and AI technologies to provide  better customer service.  In FPD production equipment, while promotion of the  PICP™ plasma etch system, which offers superior processing  uniformity, has progressed as planned, Tokyo Electron is  developing a new generation of the PICP™ in response to  demand for higher resolution. In addition, the inkjet system is  being evaluated to manufacture OLED displays, not only for  large-size TVs, but also for high-resolution, rapid response  gaming displays. Other Income (Expenses) and Net Income Attributable to  Owners of Parent  During fiscal 2020, net other expenses came to ¥0.3 billion,  reflecting ¥0.5 billion in extraordinary loss due mainly to a  loss on sales and disposal of property, plant and equipment,  offsetting ¥0.1 billion in extraordinary income due in part to  gain on change in equity. Income before income taxes came  to ¥244.6 billion, down 23.9% year on year. As a result, net  income attributable to owners of the parent totaled ¥185.2 663.9 799.7 40.2 40.3 41.2 1,130.7 40.1 42.0 281.1 1,278.2 24.3 1,127.2 33 (%) 0 116.8 17.6 155.6 19.5 24.9 204.3 billion in fiscal 2020, down 25.4% from fiscal 2019. Net income  per share (basic) declined 22.7% year on year to ¥1,170.57. Comprehensive Income In fiscal 2020, Tokyo Electron recognized comprehensive  income of ¥187.0 billion, compared with ¥242.6 billion in fis- cal 2019. This was mainly due to the ¥185.2 billion in net  income, ¥7.0 billion in unrealized gains on investment securi- ties related to strategically held shares, ¥8.4 billion in loss on  foreign currency translation adjustments and ¥3.2 billion in  remeasurements of defined benefit plans. Dividend Policy and Dividends It is the policy of Tokyo Electron to pay dividends on the  basis of business performance. The Company aims for a pay- out ratio of 50% of net income attributable to owners of the  parent. Furthermore, with an eye to ensuring stable divi- dends, a lower limit of ¥150 per share has been set on annual  dividends.1 Accordingly, although the Company’s markets  were undergoing adjustment, Tokyo Electron paid annual  dividends for fiscal 2020 of ¥588 per share (for a payout ratio  of 50.2%), its third highest ever. Going forward, the Company  will seek to build world-class profitability and reciprocate the  support of shareholders by delivering profit growth. 1  This lower limit may be revised in the event that the Company does not 310.5  generate net income for two consecutive fiscal years. 21.0 237.2 248.2 0 115.2 13.0 77.9 19.1 29.0 185.2 21.8 CONTENTS Current assets decreased ¥20.4 billion from the end of the  previous fiscal year to ¥962.4 billion, reflecting a ¥27.7 billion  decrease in cash and deposits, a ¥26.5 billion decrease in  short-term investments included in securities, and a ¥37.8  billion increase in inventories. The turnover period for trade  notes and accounts receivable in fiscal 2020 was 49 days,  compared with 42 days in fiscal 2019, and the inventory turn- over period in fiscal 2020 was 127 days, compared with 101  days in fiscal 2019.  Net property, plant and equipment increased ¥25.5 billion  year on year to ¥175.5 billion. This was largely due to an  increase in construction in progress reflecting the new pro- duction buildings being built at the Yamanashi and Tohoku  plants, and the acquisition of new evaluation tools.  Investments and other assets increased ¥13.9 billion year  on year to ¥129.5 billion. Intangible assets increased ¥1.8 (ASBJ Statement No. 28, revised on February 16, 2018). Total current assets, total investments and other assets, total assets and total liabilities for fiscal 2018  have been restated in accordance with the revised accounting standard. 150.4 166.5 76.3 83.8 22.6 20.8 193.8 17.1 237 215.6 113.9 120.2 758 16.9 214.6 19.1 30 588 97.1 624 billion year on year to ¥10.9 billion, reflecting decreases due to  depreciation and amortization (including of goodwill), as well  an increase related to the core business systems to be intro- duced from fiscal 2022. As a result, total assets as of March 31,  2020 stood at ¥1,278.4 billion, up ¥20.8 billion year on year. Liabilities and Net Assets Current liabilities increased ¥77.6 billion from the end of fiscal  2019 to ¥382.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2020. This was main- ly due to a ¥58.0 billion increase in customer advances and  a ¥20.4 billion increase in trade notes and accounts payable.  Non-current liabilities increased ¥1.5 billion year on year to  ¥66.2 billion.   Net assets came to ¥829.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2020,  down ¥58.4 billion from the end of fiscal 2019. This was  mainly due to ¥154.0 billion in repurchase of treasury stock  and ¥95.5 billion paid in cash dividends (the fiscal 2019 year- end dividend and fiscal 2020 interim dividend), despite the  recording of ¥185.2 billion in net income attributable to own- ers of the parent. treasury stock and ¥95.5 billion in dividends paid. Millions of yen As a result, the equity ratio fell 5.9 percentage points year  on year to 64.1% at the end of March 2020. ROE remained  high at 21.8%, despite the decrease in net income attributable  to owners of the parent due to market adjustment. Capital Expenditures1 and Depreciation and Amortization2 Capital expenditures totaled ¥54.6 billion in fiscal 2020, a  9.9% year on year increase. Major expenditures included the  acquisition of equipment and measurement instruments for  R&D in order to strengthen key areas in the SPE business as  well as the construction of new production buildings at the  Tohoku and Yamanashi plants to meet rising demand for  deposition equipment and the seismic reinforcement of  buildings at subsidiaries.  Depreciation and amortization increased 19.7% to ¥29.1 billion. 1  Capital expenditures represent only the gross increase in property, plant Cash Flows The balance of cash and cash equivalents at the end of March  2020 stood at ¥247.9 billion, an increase of ¥15.3 billion from 40 80 and equipment. losses on impairment. 64 61 13.3 0 19.320.6 17.8 45.6 the end of fiscal 2019. The combined balance including ¥90.4  billion in deposits and short-term investments with original  maturities of more than three months that are not included  in cash and cash equivalents decreased ¥54.2 billion year on  year to ¥338.4 billion at the end of March 2020. Cash flows  during the fiscal year under review were as follows.  Net cash provided by operating activities came to ¥253.1 bil- lion, up ¥63.5 billion from fiscal 2019. Major contributors were  ¥244.6 billion in income before income taxes, a ¥58.6 billion  increase in customer advances and ¥29.1 billion in depreciation  and amortization. Major outflows included a ¥44.0 billion  increase in inventories and ¥41.8 billion in income taxes paid.   Net cash provided by investing activities was ¥15.9 billion,  compared with ¥84.0 billion used in the previous fiscal year.  This was mainly due to an ¥80.0 billion inflow from the  decrease in short-term investments, despite outflows of ¥49.3  billion used as payment for purchases of property, plant and  equipment, and ¥10.4 billion due to an increase in deposits.  Net cash used in financing activities came to ¥250.3 billion,  compared with ¥129.7 billion in fiscal 2019. This was mainly  attributable to ¥154.0 billion in payment for purchases of 24.3 54.6 29.1 Millions of yen 0 236.7 315.3 373.8 392.6 338.4 CONTENTS The following risks may have a material impact on Tokyo  Electron’s business performance, financial  position or stock price. (1) Changes in the Semiconductor Market The semiconductor market is influenced by a wide range of  factors, including the global economy, demand for end   products, trade and tariff policies, and geopolitical factors.  As a result of such factors, supply and demand can become  unbalanced and undergo significant short-term fluctuations.  Unforeseen rapid contraction of the semiconductor market  could lead to order cancellations, production capacity excess,  increases in dead inventory, or losses from bad debts result- ing from the worsening of a customer’s financial position, or  otherwise adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s business perfor- mance. In addition, a rapid increase in demand that exceeds  the Company’s assumptions could lead to an inability to   provide products to customers in a timely manner resulting  in lost sales opportunities or otherwise adversely affect  Tokyo Electron’s business performance.  The semiconductor market is expected to expand over the  medium and long terms, reflecting ongoing technological  innovation in step with the adoption of IoT, next-generation  (5G) telecommunications standards, AI and other technolo- gies. Nevertheless, in order to respond to potential short- term market fluctuations, Tokyo Electron constantly works to  appropriately adjust its capital investment, personnel, inven- tories and other aspects of its businesses based on the latest  market forecasts, taking such steps as periodically reviewing  market conditions and orders received at Board of Directors  and other important meetings. Furthermore, Tokyo Electron’s  ability to respond to market fluctuations is enhanced by its  wide-ranging lineup of semiconductor manufacturing   products, all of which have high market shares in their  respective categories and are mutually reinforcing. (2)  Concentration of Transactions on Particular Customers A large portion of Tokyo Electron’s sales are to major, leading- edge semiconductor manufacturers. As such, Tokyo  Electron’s performance tends to be impacted by changes in  capital investment by these major customers. Reductions in  their capital investment could lead to temporary decreases in  sales, while postponed payment due to the worsening of a  major customer’s financial position could delay the collection  of trade notes and accounts receivable, and these could  adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s business performance.  The semiconductor market is expected to expand over the  medium and long terms. Tokyo Electron has established an  Account Sales Division, which works in close coordination with  major customers and quickly grasps trends in their capital invest- ment outlook, as well as a Global Sales Division, which responds  to a wide range of customer needs and cultivates new custom- ers emerging in step with growth in semiconductor demand.  Through such efforts, the Company strives to strengthen and  expand its sales framework and customer base. (3) Research and Development Through ongoing R&D investment in leading-edge technolo- gies, Tokyo Electron quickly brings to market new products  incorporating such technologies, succeeding in capturing  high market share in each product category and achieving  a high profit margin. However, delays in the launch of new  products that meet customers’ technological needs, the   mismatch of newly developed products with such needs, or  the launch of new technologies or products by competitors before such launches by Tokyo Electron could negatively  affect the competitiveness of the Company’s products,  impede the recovery of R&D costs and the maintenance of  a high profit margin, or otherwise adversely affect Tokyo  Electron’s business performance.  Tokyo Electron has established a Corporate Innovation  Division, which develops innovative technology and makes  groundbreaking technology proposals that integrate the  products and technologies of other development divisions, as  part of a Groupwide development framework. In addition, the  Company shares technology roadmaps spanning multiple  technology generations with leading-edge customers in order  to constantly provide highly competitive next-generation  products that meet future needs ahead of its competitors. (4) Production and Supply Tokyo Electron’s key production sites are located in Japan,  and it supplies products to customers in and outside Japan.  As such, earthquakes or other natural disasters, war, acts of  terrorism, infectious disease outbreaks or other unavoidable  events occurring in Japan could cause interruptions in produc- tion that, if not promptly resolvable, could delay the supply of  products to customers. Furthermore, the stable supply of  components provided by suppliers is indispensable to smooth  production. As such, in addition to the risk of disasters, delays  in component procurement due to the worsening of a suppli- er’s management situation or similar factors could result in  delays in the supply of products to customers and adversely  affect Tokyo Electron’s business performance.   Tokyo Electron formulates and periodically reviews busi- ness continuity plans (BCPs) and works to establish alternate  production structures, develop multiple sources of important  parts, seismically reinforce its plants, maintain backups of  information systems and implement appropriate inventory  control. Through these and other measures, the Company  strives to maintain stable product supply. (5) Safety Damages to customers or order cancellations due to safety- related issues or other problems related to Tokyo Electron’s  products could result in liability for damages, decrease sales,  diminish trust in the Company, or otherwise adversely affect  Tokyo Electron’s business performance.  Tokyo Electron’s “Safety First” approach entails the con- stant consideration of safety and health in the execution of  business activities, including development, manufacturing,  sales, services and management. In accordance with this  approach, Tokyo Electron works actively and continuously to  improve the safety of its products and to eliminate any  harmful impact on health. Measures to this end include thor- oughgoing safety design at the product development phase,  safety training and maintaining an accident reporting system. (6) Quality Tokyo Electron’s products are based on the integration and  optimization of numerous leading-edge technologies. The  occurrence of unforeseen defects could lead to recalls or  responsibility for other damages based on product or quality  liability, necessitate additional costs related to implementing  defect countermeasures, decrease sales, diminish trust in the  Company, or otherwise adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s  business performance.  Based on a uniform Groupwide quality control policy,  Tokyo Electron provides quality training for its employees  and suppliers and strives to maintain a quality assurance sys- tem, including ISO 9001 certification, as well as a world-class service system. The Company also seeks to solve customer  issues by working with customers from the early stages of  product development and design. When defects occur, the  Company investigates the root of the problem and takes  thoroughgoing measures to prevent recurrences and similar  issues. Moreover, in order to increase the quality of procured  components, the Company constantly monitors supplier  quality, conducting audits and providing support for suppliers  in accordance with its regulations. (7) Laws and Regulations Tokyo Electron operates globally and is therefore subject to  the various laws and regulations of the countries and regions  where it does business, including those regarding imports  and exports, the environment, competition, labor, the pre- vention of corruption and bribery, and transfer pricing   taxation. Tokyo Electron strives to ensure compliance with  such laws and regulations. However, violations of such laws  or regulations could result in diminished public confidence in  the Company, fines, damages or restrictions on business  activities, or otherwise adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s   business performance. Furthermore, unanticipated future  legal amendments or tightening of regulations could, if the  Company is unable to respond appropriately,  result in liability  for costs related to such response or restrictions on business  activities, or otherwise adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s   business performance.  Tokyo Electron has built a system for monitoring compli- ance activities at key sites in and outside Japan under the  direction of a Chief Compliance Officer. The Company   conducts compliance assessments, and the identified issues  are reported to the CEO, Board of Directors and Audit &  Supervisory Board so that they can be dealt with quickly  and effectively. (8) Intellectual Property Rights Tokyo Electron’s products are based on the integration and  optimization of numerous leading-edge technologies.  Obtaining and legally protecting Tokyo Electron’s intellectual  property rights and preventing infringements of such rights  by third parties are crucial to differentiating and  reinforcing  the competitiveness of its products. Furthermore, infringe- ments by Tokyo Electron of the intellectual property rights of  third parties could lead to restrictions on the  production and  sale of the Company’s products or liability for damages, or  otherwise adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s  business perfor- mance.  By advancing R&D strategy, business strategy and   intellectual property strategy in an integrated manner, Tokyo  Electron strives to build an appropriate intellectual property  portfolio and obtain exclusive rights to numerous proprietary  technologies to capture high market share and achieve high  profit margins in each of its product fields. (9) Information Security In the course of its business activities, Tokyo Electron obtains,  holds and utilizes confidential information, customer infor- mation and personal information. The unintentional leak of  such information could result in diminished public confidence  in the Company, liability for damages or reduced product  competitiveness, or otherwise adversely affect Tokyo  Electron’s business performance. In addition, Tokyo Electron’s  businesses rely on information systems and networks.  Problems with these systems and networks due to cyberat- tacks, unauthorized access, natural disasters, power outages,  equipment malfunctions, human errors or other factors could  cause interruptions to operations or a loss of trust. Tokyo Electron has established regulations and systems for  appropriate information management. In addition, the  Company reinforces its information and network system by  monitoring the reliability of its security though such means  as  security assessments. (10) Securing Human Resources Securing and developing human resources in and outside  Japan is crucial to the continued innovation and growth of  Tokyo Electron’s global businesses. The inability to hire and  maintain the necessary human resources on an ongoing basis  or the loss of important human resources could lead to staff- ing shortages, resulting in diminished product development  capability or customer support quality and adversely affecting  Tokyo Electron’s business performance.  Tokyo Electron believes that its employees are the source  of ongoing value creation and that increasing employee  engagement is one of the most important factors in increasing  corporate value. The Company has introduced a globally uni- fied human resources system and incentive plans linked to  medium-term business performance, and is advancing   ongoing measures to improve work environments as well as  health and productivity management, including steps to pre- vent excessively long work hours and workplace harassment. (11) Environmental Issues Requests from Tokyo Electron’s stakeholders related to reducing  environmental burden are growing. Given this, difficulties in  adequately conforming to environmental laws and regulations,  or meeting industry standards of conduct or customer needs,  could result in related costs, reduce product competitiveness,  damage public confidence in the Company, or otherwise  adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s business performance.  Tokyo Electron strives to comply with environmental laws  and regulations and industry standards of conduct, sets its  own medium- to long-term environmental goals, and works  to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the use of its   products as well as energy consumption at its facilities. In  addition, the Company works to protect the global environ- ment through its business activities by such means as   providing technologies to reduce semiconductor power   consumption, promoting used equipment and parts busi- nesses, reducing equipment size, and increasing productivity  by improving throughput. (12) The Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) The spread of COVID-19 could affect Tokyo Electron’s business  continuity, including its manufacturing and sales activities. In  addition, restrictions on the worldwide movement of people  and things, the deterioration of global economic conditions,  and other such impacts from the spread of COVID-19 could  adversely affect Tokyo Electron’s business performance.  Tokyo Electron has established an Emergency Task Force  headed by the CEO and is implementing related counter- measures, including restricting travel to high infection-risk  countries and regions, steps to maintain supply chains, and  thoroughgoing infection prevention measures at its facilities. (13) Other Risks Tokyo Electron’s businesses are influenced by many factors,  including economic conditions worldwide and in specific  regions, financial and stock markets, product and real estate  markets, foreign exchange rates, the success or failure of   corporate acquisitions, major lawsuits, and competition over  standardization. The Company expects that such factors will  sometimes adversely affect performance and takes appropriate  measures to counter such risks. 1  From fiscal 2015, Electronic components and computer networks was excluded because Tokyo Electron Device Limited, a former consolidated subsidiary, became an equity method affiliate. Photovoltaic panel (PV) production equipment was included in FPD production equipment until fiscal 2012 but from fiscal 2016, it has been included in Other. 2  Depreciation and amortization does not include amortization and loss on impairment of goodwill. 3  Capital expenditures only represent the gross increase in property, plant and equipment. 4  From fiscal 2011, the Company calculated net income per share of common stock (diluted) in accordance with “Accounting Standard for Earning Per Share” (Statement No. 2) and “Guidance on Accounting Standard for Earnings Per Share” (Guidance No. 4) released by the ASBJ. Dilution is not assumed for the years ended March 31, 2014 and 2010. 5  The amounts in this summary in millions and thousands of yen; thousands of U.S. dollars; and thousands of shares as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and prior are rounded to the nearest unit. Such amounts as of and for the years ended March 31, 2017 and onward are truncated at the nearest unit. Accordingly, totals for the years ended 6   From fiscal 2019, the Company applied “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (Statement No. 28, revised on February 16, 2018) released by the ASBJ. Accordingly, total assets, equity ratio and total asset turnover for fiscal 2018 have been restated.  Electronic components and computer networks — — — — — — — 100,726 84,665 84,868 90,216 84,473  Other 1,810 197 197 425 438 6,229 555 479 448 461 453 411 Operating income (loss) 2,180,397 237,292 310,571 281,172 155,697 116,789 88,113 32,205 12,549 60,443 97,870 (2,181) Income (loss) before income taxes 2,247,788 244,626 321,508 275,242 149,116 106,467 86,828 (11,756) 17,767 60,602 99,579 (7,768) Net income (loss) attributable to owners of parent 1,701,799 185,206 248,228 204,371 115,208 77,892 71,888 (19,409) 6,076 36,726 71,924 (9,033) Comprehensive income (loss)  1,719,056 187,084 242,696 206,152 119,998 60,984 80,295 (10,889) 15,826 36,954 69,598 (4,751) Net income (loss) per share of common stock:   Basic $     10.76 ¥ 1,170.57 ¥ 1,513.58 ¥ 1,245.48 ¥ 702.26 ¥ 461.10 ¥ 401.08 ¥ (108.31) ¥   33.91 ¥  205.04 ¥  401.73 ¥  (50.47)  Diluted 4 10.70 1,164.02 1,507.22 1,241.22 700.35 460.00 400.15 — 33.85 204.72 401.10 — Net assets per share of common stock  48.41 5,267.96 5,371.78 4,674.49 3,919.50 3,428.37 3,567.23 3,225.92 3,309.58 3,275.14 3,198.66 2,859.37 Cash dividends per share of common stock 5.40 588.00 758.00 624.00 352.00 237.00 143.00 50.00 51.00 80.00 114.00 12.00 Number of shares outstanding (thousands) 157,210 165,210 165,210 165,210 165,211 180,611 180,611 180,611 180,611 180,611 180,611 Number of shareholders 30,348 50,843 35,186 21,937 24,664 20,829 30,563 41,287 42,414 44,896 39,285 ROE  21.8 30.1 29.0 19.1 13.0  11.8  (3.3) 1.0 6.3 13.3 (1.8) Operating margin 21.0 24.3 24.9 19.5 17.6  14.4  5.3 2.5 9.5 14.6 (0.5) Equity ratio 6 64.1 70.0 63.8 67.2 70.9 73.0 69.8 76.5 74.9 70.8 73.5 Total asset turnover (times) 6 0.89 1.04 1.05 0.91 0.80 0.72 0.76 0.64 0.79 0.89 0.61 March 31, 2017 and onward do not necessarily agree with the sum of the corresponding individual amounts. Thousands of   U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars  Yen U.S. dollars Thousands of yen 2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Investments and other assets:  Investment securities  38,374  27,853  352,611   Deferred tax assets 64,729  63,925  594,780   Net defined benefit assets 5,837  3,065  53,637   Intangible assets 10,921  9,054  100,357   Other assets  21,980  22,189  201,971   Allowance for doubtful accounts  (1,413) (1,426) (12,986)   Total investments and other assets  140,431  124,661  1,290,371  Total assets  ¥1,278,495  ¥1,257,627  $11,747,636  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Millions of yen Thousands of   U.S. dollars LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2020 2019 2020 Current liabilities:  Trade notes and accounts payable  ¥   95,938  ¥   75,448  $   881,543   Income taxes payable 52,654  57,671  483,826   Customer advances 135,326  77,247  1,243,462   Accrued employees’ bonuses 29,139  33,139  267,749   Accrued warranty expenses 14,534  14,097  133,549   Other current liabilities 54,986  47,277  505,248     Total current liabilities  382,578  304,882  3,515,380 Thousands of   U.S. dollars CONTENTS Per share of common stock:  Net income — basic  ¥1,170.57  ¥1,513.58  $10.76 Net income — diluted  1,164.02  1,507.22  10.70   Net assets  5,267.96  5,371.78  48.41   Cash dividends  588.00  758.00  5.40  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2020 2019 2020 Millions of yen Yen U.S. dollars Thousands of   U.S. dollars See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Thousands of   U.S. dollars See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash dividends — — (124,754) — — — — — — (124,754) Thousands of U.S. dollars gains on Dividends paid  (95,513) (124,754) (877,643)  Other, net (764) (3) (7,023)  Net cash used in financing activities  (250,374) (129,761) (2,300,602) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  (3,369) (1,020) (30,964) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 15,324  (25,243) 140,810  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 232,634  257,877  2,137,598  Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥247,959  ¥232,634  $2,278,408  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  in scope of consolidation — 10,754  — 2020 2019 2020 Millions of yen Thousands of   U.S. dollars Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial The accompanying consolidated financial statements of  Tokyo Electron Limited (hereinafter “the Company”) and its  subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Tokyo  Electron”) have been prepared in accordance with the provi- sions set forth in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act  of Japan and its related accounting regulations, and in con- formity with accounting principles generally accepted in  Japan, which are different in certain respects as to application  and disclosure requirements of International Financial  Reporting Standards.  The Company uses financial statements prepared by for- eign subsidiaries in accordance with International Financial  Reporting Standards or U.S. generally accepted accounting  principles for the preparation of the consolidated financial  statements, together with adjustment for certain items which  are required to be adjusted in the consolidation process.  The accompanying consolidated financial statements  have been restructured and translated into English from the  statutory Japanese language consolidated financial state- ments. Some supplementary information included in the  statutory Japanese language consolidated financial state- ments is not presented in the accompanying consolidated  financial statements.  The amounts in the consolidated financial statements and  associated notes shown in millions and thousands of yen;  thousands of U.S. dollars; and thousands of shares as of and  for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are truncated at  the nearest unit. Accordingly, totals do not necessarily agree  with the sum of the corresponding individual amounts.  U.S. dollar amounts included herein are solely for the con- venience of readers and are presented at the rate of ¥108.83  to $1.00, the approximate rate as of March 31, 2020. The  translation should not be construed as a representation that  the Japanese yen amounts shown could be converted into  U.S. dollars at that or any other rate. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (a) Principles of consolidation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts  of the Company and its 29 and 33 subsidiaries as of March 31,  2020 and 2019, respectively. All significant inter-company  accounts, transactions and unrealized profits or losses have  been eliminated through consolidation procedures.  There are 9 affiliates accounted for using the equity meth- od as of March 31, 2020 and 2019. The fiscal year-end of all entities is March 31, except for 3  consolidated foreign subsidiaries. Financial statements provi- sionally closed for the period ending March 31 are used for  those subsidiaries. (b) Foreign currency translation  All assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies  are translated into Japanese yen at the year-end rates, except  for those hedged by forward exchange contracts, which are  translated at the contracted rates. Resulting exchange gains  and losses are included in earnings for the year.  Revenue and expense items are translated at the rates that  approximate those prevailing at the time of the transactions.  The balance sheet accounts of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into Japanese yen at the rates of exchange in  effect at the balance sheet date, except for shareholders’  equity accounts, which are translated at the historical rates.  Revenue and expense accounts of foreign subsidiaries are  translated at average rates of exchange in effect during the  year. Resulting translation adjustments are presented in net  assets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive  income in the consolidated balance sheets. (c) Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, short term  deposits and low-risk financial instruments with original  maturities of three months or less. (d) Short-term investments  Short-term investments consist of short term deposits  and low-risk financial instruments with original maturities of  more than three months. (e) Investment securities  Tokyo Electron examines the intent of holding each securi- ty and classifies those securities as trading securities, held-to  maturity debt securities or other securities. Tokyo Electron  has no trading securities as of March 31, 2020 and 2019.  Held-to-maturity debt securities are stated mainly at amor- tized cost. Other securities with market prices are valued at  fair value at the balance sheet date. The differences between  the book value and fair value of other securities, net of appli- cable income taxes, are presented in net assets as a compo- nent of accumulated other comprehensive income. Other  securities without market prices are valued at cost using the  weighted-average method.  The cost of sold securities is calculated using the weighted  average method. (f) Inventories  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined by  principally the specific identification method, or net realizable  value, which is defined as selling price less estimated addition- al manufacturing costs and estimated direct selling expenses. (g) Property, plant and equipment  Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation of buildings, machinery and equipment of the  Company and its domestic subsidiaries is computed using  the declining-balance method, except for buildings acquired  since April 1, 1998 and facilities attached to buildings and  structures acquired since April 1, 2016 which are depreciated  using the straight-line method, based on the estimated   useful lives of assets. Foreign subsidiaries mainly apply the  straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of assets.  Estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment  are as follows:   Buildings   2 to 60 years (h) Intangible assets (excluding goodwill)  Intangible assets are amortized by the straight-line meth- od over their estimated useful lives. (i) Goodwill  Goodwill is evaluated on an individual basis and amortized  by the straight-line method over a period not exceeding  20 years. (j) Impairment of fixed assets  Tokyo Electron evaluates the carrying value of fixed assets  held for use in the business and idle assets.  If the carrying value of a fixed asset is impaired, a loss is  recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value  exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the net  selling price or the value in use of the assets. Net selling price  is determined using the fair value less disposal costs and  value in use is based on the total amount of discounted cash  flows estimated to be generated from the continuing use of  the individual assets or the asset group and the disposal of  the assets. (k) Allowance for doubtful accounts  The allowance for doubtful accounts is provided at an  amount determined based on the historical experience of  bad debts with respect to ordinary receivables, and an esti- mate of uncollectible amounts determined by reference to  specific doubtful receivables from customers which are expe- riencing financial difficulties. (l) Employee benefits  The Company and its domestic subsidiaries provide  defined benefit plans for their employees. Expected benefits  are attributed to accounting periods by the benefit formula  basis. Prior service costs are charged to earnings on a  straight-line basis, beginning from the fiscal year in which  they are incurred, over a fixed number of years (4 years)  within the average remaining years of service of employees  when the changes occur. Actuarial differences are charged to  earnings on a straight-line basis, beginning from the follow- ing fiscal year after they are incurred, over a fixed number of  years (4 years) within the average remaining years of service  of employees when the differences occur.  The provision for accrued pension and severance costs for  directors and audit & supervisory board members of the  Company and its domestic subsidiaries is calculated in accor- dance with internal regulations.  The Company and certain domestic subsidiaries decided to  discontinue the payment of severance pay for directors and  audit & supervisory board members after April 1, 2005, and at  the general shareholders’ meeting in June 2005, it was  resolved that the severance pay for directors and audit &  supervisory board members until March 31, 2005 would be  paid at the termination of their service and the decision  regarding the payment amount for each director and audit &  supervisory board member was delegated to the board of  directors and audit & supervisory board members. The accru- als for severance costs for directors and audit & supervisory  board members are included in Net defined benefit liabilities  in the consolidated balance sheets. (m) Accrued warranty expenses  Tokyo Electron’s products are generally subject to warranty,  and Tokyo Electron accrues estimated warranty costs when  product revenue is recognized. Estimated after-sale repair  expenses over warranty periods are accrued based on the his- torical ratio of actual repair expenses to corresponding sales. (n) Derivatives and hedge accounting  The Company and certain subsidiaries make use of deriva- tives in order to manage certain risks arising from adverse  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The amount  of derivatives is limited to the extent of foreign currency  assets, liabilities and actual orders, and Tokyo Electron does  not trade in derivatives for speculative purposes.  Derivatives are carried at fair value in the consolidated bal- ance sheet with changes in unrealized gain or loss charged or  credited to earnings, except for those which meet the criteria  for hedge accounting. Unrealized gains or losses on hedging  instruments, net of taxes, are reported in net assets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income  (loss). Receivables and payables hedged by qualified forward  foreign exchange contracts are translated at the correspond- ing foreign exchange contract rates. (o) Income taxes  Tokyo Electron records deferred tax assets and liabilities on  temporary differences between the carrying amounts of  assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the  amounts used for income tax purposes and net operating  loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are  measured using the enacted tax rates and laws which are  expected to be in effect when net operating loss carryfor- wards and temporary differences are expected to be realized. (p) Revenue recognition  Revenue from Semiconductor and FPD (Flat Panel Display)  production equipment is principally recognized at the time of  the customer confirmation of set-up and testing of products.  Revenue from equipment not requiring substantial installa- tion is recognized at the time of shipment. Service revenue  for maintenance is recognized ratably over the term of the  maintenance contract. (q) Research and development expenses  Research and development expenses are charged to earn- ings as incurred and amounted to ¥120,268 million  ($1,105,100 thousand) and ¥113,980 million for the years  ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (r) Reclassifications  Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s  consolidated financial statements to conform with the pre- sentation used for the year ended March 31, 2020. 3.  Change in Accounting Policies and Adoption of New Year ended March 31, 2020  Certain consolidated overseas subsidiaries adopted IFRS 16  “Leases” from the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31,  2020, and recognize all leases as a lessee in principle as  assets and liabilities on the balance sheets.  Tokyo Electron elected to use the transitional approach to  recognize the cumulative effect of initially applying this stan- dard at the date of initial application. Right-of-use assets  were recognized at the same value as lease liabilities and,  therefore, there was no impact on retained earnings at the  beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The effect of this change on the consolidated financial  statements is immaterial. Additional Information Stock delivering schemes linked to medium-term  performance  Tokyo Electron introduced stock delivering schemes (hereinaf- ter “the Schemes”) as a common global incentive plan linked to  medium-term performance.  The purpose of the Schemes is to  encourage directors and employees to contribute to the Group’s  medium-term performance and enterprise value.   Tokyo Electron adopted the “Practical Solution on  Transactions of Delivering the Company’s Own Stock to  Employees, etc. through Trusts” (PITF No. 30, March 26, 2015)  for the accounting treatment of the Schemes. Executive compensation BIP (Board Incentive Plan) Trust (1) Overview of the transactions  The Executive compensation BIP Trust which the Company  established acquires the Company’s shares, and delivers and  provides shares of the Company and monetary compensa- tion corresponding to the cash conversion value of the  Company’s shares to the directors of the Company and its  subsidiaries (excluding outside directors) based on their posi- tion and attainment of performance targets in accordance  with the share delivery rules. (2) The Company’s shares held by the trust  Tokyo Electron recorded the Company’s shares held by the  trust in “Treasury stock, at cost” under “Net assets” at the  book value in the trust (excluding ancillary expenses). The  book value and the number of such treasury shares were  ¥1,154 million ($10,604 thousand) and 60,538 shares as of  March 31, 2020, respectively, and were ¥674 million and  34,038 shares as of March 31, 2019, respectively. 2.  Share-delivering ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan) Trust (1) Overview of the transactions  The Share-delivering ESOP Trust which the Company  established acquires the Company’s shares, and delivers and  provides shares of the Company and monetary compensa- tion corresponding to the cash conversion value of the  Company’s shares to the general managers, senior employees  and mid-class employees of the Company and its subsidiaries  based on their position and attainment of performance tar- gets in accordance with the share delivery rules. (2) The Company’s shares held by the trust   Tokyo Electron recorded the Company’s shares held by the  trust in “Treasury stock, at cost” under “Net assets” at the  book value in the trust (excluding ancillary expenses). The  book value and the number of such treasury shares were  ¥7,840 million ($72,045 thousand) and 411,492 shares as of  March 31, 2020, respectively, and were ¥4,274 million and  215,663 shares as of March 31, 2019, respectively. Accounting Standards Issued but Not yet Adopted “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ  Statement No. 29, March 31, 2020 (hereinafter, “Statement  No.29”))  “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for  Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No. 30, March 31, 2020  (hereinafter, “Guidance No.30”))  “Implementation Guidance on Disclosures about Fair Value  of Financial Instruments” (ASBJ Guidance No. 19, March 31, 2020) (1) Overview  The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and  the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) collab- orated on a project to develop a single, comprehensive reve- nue recognition model and jointly issued new revenue  recognition standards “Revenue from Contracts with  Customers” (IFRS 15 published by IASB, ASC Topic 606 pub- lished by FASB) in May 2014. IFRS 15 is effective for annual  reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and  Topic 606 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning  after December 15, 2017.  Considering the above circumstances, the Accounting  Standard Board of Japan (ASBJ) also developed a new reve- nue recognition standard and issued Statement No.29  together with Guidance No.30.  ASBJ’s basic policy in developing the new revenue recogni- tion standards is to first incorporate the core principle of IFRS  15 in the light of improving the international comparability of  financial statements and then add additional alternative  treatments to the extent that international comparability  would not be impaired where any business practices operat- ed in Japan need to be considered. (2) Effective date  Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending  March 31, 2022. (3) Effects of the application of the standards  The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are  currently in the process of determining the effects of these  new standards on the consolidated financial statements. “Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement” (ASBJ  Statement No. 30, July 4, 2019 (hereinafter, “Statement No.30”))  “Accounting Standard for Measurement of Inventories” (ASBJ  Statement No. 9, July 4, 2019)   “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (ASBJ  Statement No. 10, July 4, 2019)  “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Fair  Value Measurement” (ASBJ Guidance No. 31, July 4, 2019)  “Implementation Guidance on Disclosures about Fair Value  of Financial Instruments” (ASBJ Guidance No. 19, March 31, 2020) (1) Overview  The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and  the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) have  provided similar detailed guidance for fair value measure- ment (IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement” published by IASB,  ASC Topic 820 “Fair Value Measurement” published by FASB).  Considering the above circumstances, the Accounting  Standard Board of Japan (ASBJ) issued Statement No.30 and  the other standards above to enhance consistency between  Japanese accounting standards and international accounting  standards regarding guidance for fair value of financial  instruments and required disclosures.  ASBJ’s basic policy in developing the new fair value mea- surement standards is to basically incorporate all principles of  IFRS 13 in light of improving the international comparability  of financial statements by using a unified measuring method,  and then provide other treatments for individual items to the  extent that international comparability would not be signifi- cantly impaired where any business practices operated in  Japan need to be considered. (2) Effective date  Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending  March 31, 2022. (3) Effects of the application of the standards  The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries  have not determined the effects of these new standards on  the consolidated financial statements yet. “Accounting Standard for Disclosure of Accounting  Estimates” (ASBJ Statement No. 31, March 31, 2020 (hereinaf- ter, “Statement No.31”)) (1) Overview  Regarding “key sources of estimation uncertainty” which is  required to be disclosed based on paragraph 125 of IAS 1  “Presentation of Financial Statements” published by the  International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), there has  been a public opinion that the same information should be  disclosed as notes in financial statements prepared based on  Japanese generally accepted accounting principles.  Considering the above circumstances, the Accounting  Standard Board of Japan (ASBJ) developed and issued  Statement No.31.  ASBJ’s basic policy in developing this standard is to provide  principles (disclosure purposes) and companies should deter- mine specific contents of disclosure in light of disclosure pur- poses rather than expanding individual notes. ASBJ referred  to paragraph 125 of IAS 1 in the development of this standard. (2) Effective date  Effective from the end of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. “Accounting Standard for Accounting Policy Disclosures,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections” (ASBJ Statement  No. 24, March 31, 2020 (hereinafter, “Statement No.24”)) (1) Overview  The Accounting Standard Board of Japan (ASBJ) made revi- sions and issued Statement No.24 based on the recommenda- tion to expand notes regarding “accounting principles and  procedures when related accounting standards are not clear”.  Regarding the expansion of notes regarding “accounting  principles and procedures when related accounting standards  are not clear”, it is required to follow Notes on Corporate  Accounting Principles (Note 1-2) in order not to affect conven- tional business practices when related accounting standards  are clear. (2) Effective date  Effective from the end of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. Securities Held-to-maturity securities classified as current assets are  ¥188,500 million ($1,732,059 thousand) and ¥215,000 million  as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Reconciliation of held-to-maturity securities as of March  31, 2020 and 2019 to the amounts of short-term investments  in the consolidated balance sheets are as follows: Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of   U.S. dollars Net loss on devaluation of investment securities was none  and immaterial for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019,  respectively.  For the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company sold  available-for-sale securities and the amounts were  immaterial.   For the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company recog- nized the following gain and loss on sale: Inventories The amounts of change in inventory provision included in  cost of sales in the consolidated statements of income for  the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 were an increase of  ¥2,290 million ($21,045 thousand) and an increase of ¥4,031  million, respectively. Pledged Assets Tokyo Electron did not hold any assets pledged as collater- al as of March 31, 2020 and 2019. Short-term Borrowings There are no short-term borrowings classified as current  liabilities as of March 31, 2020 and 2019.  As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, Tokyo Electron had unused  lines of credit amounting to ¥126,929 million ($1,166,311 thou- sand) and ¥126,947 million, respectively. Employee Benefits The Company and its domestic subsidiaries provide a cash  balance plan and a non-contributory retirement and sever- ance benefit plan as defined benefit plans, and provide a  defined contribution plan as defined contribution plans for  their employees. Further, certain consolidated overseas sub- sidiaries provide defined benefit plans and defined contribu- tion plans for their employees. Thousands of   U.S. dollars audit & supervisory board members of ¥110 million ($1,012 thousand)  and ¥374 million as of March 31, 2020 and 2019 is not included. U.S. dollars U.S. dollars U.S. dollars CONTENTS (7) Plan assets   1. Plan assets comprise: Long-term expected rate of return  Current and target asset allocations, and historical and  expected returns on the various categories of plan assets  have been considered in determining the long-term  expected rate of return. Bonds 31% 31% Life insurance company general account 29  30  Alternative investments (Note) 15  13  Equity securities 12  14  Cash and cash equivalents 1  1  Other 12  11  Total 100% 100% Note:  Alternative investments mainly consist of hedge funds, real estate,  insurance-linked securities and infrastructure. 2020 2019 2020 Thousands of   U.S. dollars U.S. dollars U.S. dollars Discount rate 0.55% 0.36% Long-term expected rate of return 2.00% 2.00% The expected rates of salary increase for the years ended  March 31, 2020 and 2019 are also considered as one of the  actuarial assumptions, and are set based on the salary  increase index by age group as of January 1, 2019. Defined contribution plans  The contributions of the Company and its subsidiaries to  the defined contribution plans are ¥2,570 million ($23,620  thousand) and ¥2,498 million for the years ended March 31,  2020 and 2019, respectively. Income Taxes Thousands of   U.S. dollars deductible and net operating loss carryforwards are available  to be utilized. For assessment of the realizability of deferred  tax assets, management considers the scheduled reversal of  deferred tax liabilities, future estimated taxable income, tax  planning strategies and level of net operating loss carryfor- wards, if any, in accordance with accounting principles gen- erally accepted in Japan.  Based on the level of historical taxable income and future  estimated taxable income over the periods which the tem- porary differences are deductible and net operating loss car- ryforwards are available to be utilized, management believes  Tokyo Electron will realize the benefits of deferred tax assets,  net of valuation allowance, as of March 31, 2020 and 2019.  The Company and its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries  apply a consolidated tax filing system for corporate tax purposes.  The Company and its domestic subsidiaries calculated the  amounts of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities  based on the Income Tax Act prior to amendment regarding  the transition to group tax sharing system established in “Act  for Partial Amendment of the Income Tax Act, etc. ” (Act No.8  of 2020) and the items for which the single tax payment sys- tem was amended in line with the transition to group tax  sharing system, in accordance with the treatment specified  by paragraph 3 of “Practical Solution on the Treatment of Tax  Effect Accounting for the Transition from the Consolidated  Taxation System to the Group Tax Sharing System” (PITF  No.39, March 31, 2020) instead of the provision of paragraph  44 of “Implementation Guidance on Tax Effect Accounting”  (ASBJ Guidance No. 28, February 16, 2018).  Significant components of the difference between the  statutory and effective tax rates for the years ended March  31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Statutory tax rate in Japan 30.62% 30.62% Adjustments: Tax credits (5.96) (6.52) Difference in statutory tax rates    of subsidiaries (1.52) (1.11) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.27  0.46 Others, net 0.88  (0.66) Effective tax rate 24.29% 22.79% prior historical periods relating to the transactions between  the Company and its Korean subsidiary. As a result, ¥862 mil- lion of tax benefit is included in current income tax expense  as the difference between the actual tax refunds and the  estimated amount recorded in prior fiscal year. Net Assets Net assets comprises four subsections, which are share- holders’ equity, accumulated other comprehensive income,  share subscription rights and non-controlling interests.  Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount  paid for new shares is required to be designated as common  stock. However, a company may, by a resolution of the board  of directors, designate an amount not exceeding one half of  the price of the new shares as additional paid-in capital  which is included in capital surplus.  In cases where dividend distribution of surplus is made, the  lesser of an amount equal to 10% of the dividend or the  excess, if any, of 25% of common stock over the total of  additional paid-in capital and legal reserve must be set aside  as additional paid-in capital or legal reserve. Legal reserve is  included in retained earnings in the accompanying consoli- dated balance sheets.  Both appropriations of legal reserve and additional paid-in  capital used to eliminate or reduce a deficit generally require  a resolution of the shareholders’ meeting.  Additional paid-in capital and legal reserve may not be dis- tributed as dividends. All additional paid-in capital and legal  reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and  retained earnings, respectively, which are potentially available  for dividends.  The Company is subject to restriction of dividends based  on the Japanese Corporate Act, which restricts the amount of  dividends to retained earnings on a consolidated basis.  The Company’s articles allow for the distribution of earn- ings to shareholders on dates other than the mid-term and  year-end, by a resolution of the board of directors in accor- dance with Japanese laws and regulations.  At the board of directors’ meeting held on May 14, 2020,  the distribution of cash dividends amounting to ¥53,351 mil- lion ($490,224 thousand) was resolved. Such appropriations  have not been accrued in the consolidated financial state- ments as of March 31, 2020 since they are recognized in the  period in which they are resolved at the board of directors’  meeting. The dividends of ¥53,351 million include ¥161 million  ($1,483 thousand) related to treasury stock held by the BIP/ ESOP Trusts. Other Comprehensive Income Share Subscription Rights Stock option plan  The Company’s shareholders have approved annual stock  option plans for directors and selected employees since the  year ended March 31, 1999. The options under the plans vest  immediately or over three-year period with restriction on  exercise up to three years after the date of grant, and have an exercise period of seventeen years from the date on  which the options become exercisable.  Options to purchase 360,400 shares of the Company were  authorized and granted at an exercise price of ¥1 ($0.01) for  the year ended March 31, 2020. Thousands of   U.S. dollars Valuation method of fair value per unit of stock options  Fair value as of the grant date for stock options granted for  the year ended March 31, 2020 was ¥11,264 ($103.50) per  unit, which was evaluated as follows: Volatility (Note 1) 34.04% Expected residual period (Note 2) 5.68 years Expected dividends (Note 3) ¥691 ($6.35) per share Risk-free interest rate (Note 4) (0.24)% Notes:  1.  Calculated based on the stock price performance for the period 2.  Calculated based on past actual results and forecast of the exercise 3.  Based on the dividends paid for the years ended March 31, 2019 4.  Based on Japanese government bond yield corresponding to the (3) Method of estimating the number of vested stock options  It is not necessary to estimate the number of vested stock  options as the rights to exercise stock options are vested  immediately when granted. Outstanding at the beginning of year 688,700 ¥1 $0.01  563,600 ¥1 Granted 360,400 1 0.01 219,900 1 Exercised 182,200 1 0.01 94,800 1 Expired (forfeited) — — — — — Outstanding at the end of year 866,900 1 0.01 688,700 1 Exercisable at the end of year 141,900 1 0.01 129,700 1 and 2018. of stock options. corresponding to the expected residual period (from October 2013  to June 2019). expected residual period. 2020 2019 2020 Millions of yen 15th Stock Acquisition Rights   Thousands of   U.S. dollars Number of   shares Fair Value of Financial Instruments Policy for financial instruments  Tokyo Electron limits its fund management to short-term  bank deposits and low-risk financial instruments.  Trade receivables, which consist of notes and accounts  receivable, are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-  performance by the counterparties. Execution and manage- ment of credit risk, maturity and receivable balance are  conducted pursuant to the internal management rules for  credit control. Credit risk of major customers is assessed on  a regular basis.  Short-term investments consist of short term deposits  and low-risk financial instruments and Tokyo Electron trade  with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate credit risks.  Investment securities consist of mainly equity interests in  listed companies exposed to equity market risks. Conditions,  including market prices, for these investment securities are  monitored on a regular basis.  Trade payables, which consist of notes and accounts pay- able, mainly mature within one year. Trade payables are  exposed to liquidity risks which are managed through activi- ties such as implementing cash management plans.  See note 17 for detailed discussion on derivative financial  instruments. Total ¥11,523 ¥12,272 $105,888 Due over one year 7,608 8,577 69,909 Due within one year ¥ 3,915 ¥ 3,694 $ 35,979 15. Leases the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Accordingly, leas- es as a lessee which had been classified as operating leases under the  previous accounting standard are not included in the amounts above as  of March 31, 2020, since they are now recorded on the balance sheets  in principle. Yen U.S. dollars Yen Thousands of   U.S. dollars CONTENTS Fair value of financial instruments  Carrying amount and estimated fair value of financial  instruments as of March 31, 2020 and 2019 are set out below.  Fair value of financial instruments which is practically difficult  to estimate are excluded. Notes:  1.   Fair value calculation of financial instruments     Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, trade notes and    receivable, net of allowance for  doubtful accounts (¥105 million) 150,029 150,029 accounts receivable and trade notes and accounts payable. Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Millions of yen Maturities of financial assets and securities are as follows:      The carrying amounts approximate fair value because of the short Derivatives      See note 17 for detailed discussion on derivative financial  instruments. 2.  The following financial instruments are not included in the above as Derivative Financial Instruments Tokyo Electron is subject to risk from adverse fluctuations  in foreign currency exchange rates in its operating and  financing activities. The Company and certain subsidiaries  enter into forward foreign exchange contracts in order to  hedge such risks, but do not enter into such transactions for  speculative purposes. The Company implements a ratio anal- ysis of the total cumulative cash flow fluctuations to assess  effectiveness of hedging for all derivative transactions, they do not have quoted market prices and therefore it is considered  extremely difficult to measure their fair value. maturity of these instruments. market prices. securities. Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen After 1 through   Thousands of   U.S. dollars except for transactions where the critical terms of the hedg- ing instrument and hedged item match and the Company  could conclude that changes in fair value or cash flows are  expected to completely offset. Execution and management  of all derivative transactions are conducted pursuant to the  internal management rule.  The estimated fair values of the derivative financial instru- ments as of March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: 1.  Derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging 2020: Sell U.S. dollars ¥   668  ¥  (8) ¥  (8) Sell EURO 525  (0) (0) Sell Swiss francs 61  0  0  Buy U.S. dollars 21,973  162  162  Buy Chinese yuan 2,105  (28) (28) Buy GBP 334  (1) (1) Buy Singapore dollars 303  0  0  Buy Taiwan dollars 45  1  1  Total ¥26,018  ¥125  ¥125 Derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments 2020:  Contract amount Future transactions denominated in a foreign currency Sell U.S. dollars ¥4,281 ¥— ¥(47) $39,338 $— $(432) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency (Note) Sell U.S. dollars 1,818 — — 16,712 — — Total ¥6,100 ¥— ¥(47) $56,050 $— $(432) 2019:  Contract amount Future transactions denominated in a foreign currency Sell U.S. dollars ¥5,951 ¥— ¥(56) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency (Note) Sell U.S. dollars 898 — — Buy U.S. dollars 61 — — Total ¥6,911 ¥— ¥(56) Note:  The fair value of these derivative financial instruments, which is based on the quoted foreign exchange rates, is included in the carrying value of hedged assets  instruments and liabilities. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2019: Sell U.S. dollars ¥ 1,201  ¥14  ¥14  Buy U.S. dollars 11,967  53  53  Buy Chinese yuan 2,720  9  9  Buy Taiwan dollars 1,213  (3) (3) Buy GBP 593  0  0  Buy EURO 360  0  0  Buy Singapore dollars 326  (0) (0) Total ¥18,383  ¥74  ¥74 2020: Sell U.S. dollars $  6,146  $  (78) $  (78) Sell EURO 4,826  (7) (7) Sell Swiss francs 561  0  0  Buy U.S. dollars 201,902  1,497  1,497  Buy Chinese yuan 19,349  (265) (265) Buy GBP 3,076  (9) (9) Buy Singapore dollars 2,791  0  0  Buy Taiwan dollars 419  13  13  Total $239,074  $1,151  $1,151  Note: The fair values are based on the quoted forward foreign exchange rates. Thousands of U.S. dollars Net sales 18. Segment Information General information about reportable segments  A reportable segment is a component or an aggregated component of Tokyo Electron. For each of the components, discrete  financial information is available and the operating result is regularly reviewed by management to make decisions about resourc- es to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance.  The operation of Tokyo Electron consists of segments by products and services based on business units (BUs), and Tokyo  Electron identifies as a reportable segment, “semiconductor production equipment (SPE)” and “flat panel display (FPD) produc- tion equipment”.  Products of the SPE segment consist of coater/developers, etch systems, deposition systems, cleaning systems used in wafer  processing, wafer probers used in the wafer testing process and other semiconductor production equipment. The SPE segment  principally develops, manufactures, sells such products and provide services on them.  Products of the FPD production equipment segment consist of coater/developers and etch/ash systems used in the manufac- ture of flat panel displays. The FPD production equipment segment principally develops, manufactures, sells such products and  provide services on them. Basis of measurement of reportable segment net sales, segment profit (loss), segment assets and other items  The accounting policies applied in each reportable segment are generally consistent with those applied for the preparation of  the consolidated financial statements. Intersegment sales or transfers are determined by negotiation between the Tokyo  Electron group companies considering current market prices. Assets in common use have not been allocated to each reportable  segment, while costs associated with those assets have been allocated to reportable segments on a systematic basis. Depreciation and amortization 147,682 11,419 1,786 160,888 106,571 267,459 Amortization of goodwill 1,806 — — 1,806 — 1,806 Capital expenditures, including intangible assets 193,723 37,082 2,618 233,424 306,092 539,517 Notes: 1.  “Other” includes all other operating segments which are not included in the reportable segments, including group-wide logistic services, facility maintenance 2.  (1)   ”Adjustments” for segment profit (loss) totaling ¥(37,310) million ($(342,834) thousand) and ¥(30,484) million for the years ended March 31, 2020 and Notes: 1. Sales are classified in countries or regions based on location of customers.   2. Net sales of North America include sales in the U.S.A. of ¥205,783 million. Notes: 1. Sales are classified in countries or regions based on location of customers.   2. Net sales of North America include sales in the U.S.A. of ¥131,914 million. 2020: Japan North America Europe South Korea Taiwan China Other Total Net sales $1,486,835 $1,891,067  $541,207  $1,422,414 $2,399,304 $2,290,125  $327,278  $10,358,232  Note: Net sales of North America include sales in the U.S.A. of $1,890,873 thousand. and insurance. 2019, respectively, mainly consists of research and development costs of ¥(19,796) million ($(181,902) thousand) and ¥(15,999) million for the years  ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, pertaining to the Company’s fundamental research and element research and other general and adminis- trative costs that do not belong to the reportable segments. mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and buildings not allocated to any of the reportable segments. respectively, mainly consist of capital expenditures for buildings not allocated to any of the reportable segments. Semiconductor Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Intel Corporation Semiconductor production equipment ¥230,340 $2,116,517 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. Semiconductor production equipment 187,890 1,726,462 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Semiconductor production equipment and FPD production equipment 120,127 1,103,810 Note: The amounts include sales to the customer and its subsidiaries. Intel Corporation Semiconductor production equipment ¥199,594 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Semiconductor production equipment and FPD production equipment 175,315 SK hynix Inc. Semiconductor production equipment 174,468 Micron Technology, Inc. Semiconductor production equipment 131,821 Note: The amounts include sales to the customer and its subsidiaries. Name of customer Related reportable segment 2019 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of   U.S. dollars Net income per share of common stock — Basic Net income attributable to owners of parent ¥185,206 ¥248,228 $1,701,799  Less components not pertaining to holders of common stock — — — Net income pertaining to holders of common stock ¥185,206 ¥248,228 $1,701,799  Weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding (thousands) 158,219 164,000 Net income per share of common stock — Diluted Adjustment of net income attributable to owners of parent — — — Increase in number of common stock (Thousands of share) 889 692  Increase in number of share subscription rights (Thousands of share) 889 692 19. Per-Share Information Net income per share and net assets per share are computed based on the weighted-average number of shares of common  stock outstanding during each year. Net income-diluted per share is computed based on the weighted-average number of  shares of common stock outstanding during each year after incorporating the dilutive potential effect of shares of common  stock to be issued upon the exercise of stock options.  Dividends per share has been presented on an accruals basis and include, in each fiscal year ended March 31, dividends  approved or to be approved after March 31 but applicable to the year then ended. shareholders’ equity, are included in the treasury stock which is deducted in calculating the per-share information .   The number of treasury shares deducted in the calculation of net assets per share was 472 thousand shares and 249 thousand shares as of March 31, 2020  and 2019, respectively, and the average number of treasury shares deducted in the calculation of net income per share and fully diluted net income per share  was 398 thousand shares and 167 thousand shares for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Thousands of   U.S. dollars CONTENTS Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Tokyo Electron Limited (“the Company”) and its consol- idated subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “the Group”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as at March 31, 2020  and 2019, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in net assets and cash flows for the years  then ended, and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated finan- cial position of the Group as at March 31, 2020 and 2019, and its consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the years  then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Our responsibilities under those  standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of  our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the  consolidated financial statements in Japan, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these  requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Responsibilities of Management and Corporate auditors and the board of corporate auditors for   the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with  accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable  the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as  a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern in accordance with accounting principles generally  accepted in Japan. Corporate auditors and the board of corporate auditors are responsible for overseeing the directors’ performance of their duties  including the design, implementation and maintenance of the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable  assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards gen- erally accepted in Japan will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error  and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic  decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan, we exercise professional judgment and  maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to  provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one  resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of   internal control. circumstances, while the objective of the audit is not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. disclosures made by management. Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Subsidiaries Investor Information Financial Review Consolidated Eleven-Year Summary Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income We communicate with corporate auditors and the board of corporate auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned  scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify  during our audit. We also provide corporate auditors and the board of corporate auditors with a statement that we have complied with relevant  ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably  be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Convenience Translation The U.S. dollar amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements with respect to the year ended March 31, 2020  are presented solely for convenience. Our audit also included the translation of yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts and, in our  opinion, such translation has been made on the basis described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest required to be disclosed by the Certified Public Accountants Act of Japan We do not have any interest in the Group which is required to be disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the Certified Public  Accountants Act of Japan. Notes to the Reader of Independent Auditor’s Report: This is a copy of the Independent Auditor’s Report and the original copies are kept separately by the Company and KPMG AZSA LLC. dence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the  Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If  we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw atten- tion in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inade- quate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.  However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. standards generally accepted in Japan, the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements,  including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events  in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and   performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. • Tokyo Electron U.S. Holdings, Inc.    • Tokyo Electron America, Inc.    • TEL Technology Center, America, LLC    • TEL Venture Capital, Inc.    • TEL Manufacturing and Engineering of America, Inc. • Tokyo Electron Korea Limited   • Tokyo Electron Taiwan Limited   • Tokyo Electron (Shanghai) Limited   • Tokyo Electron (Kunshan) Limited   • Tokyo Electron Singapore Pte. Limited ASIA The Master Trust Bank of Japan Limited (trust account) 31,397 20.12 Japan Trustee Services Bank Limited (trust account) 14,888 9.54 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385632 8,712 5.58 Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 5,991 3.84 Japan Trustee Services Bank Limited (trust account 7) 4,145 2.65 Japan Trustee Services Bank Limited (trust account 4) 2,902 1.86 SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 2,628 1.68 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 2,599 1.66 Japan Trustee Services Bank Limited (trust account 5) 2,584 1.65 Notes: 1. Shares of less than one thousand have been rounded down in the “Number of shares held.”   2.  Voting share ratios are calculated excluding treasury stock (1,213,526 shares). Figures are truncated after Total shareholder  return (%) 90.3 152.0 253.3 214.4 273.4 (TOPIX, dividends   reinvested) (89.2) (102.3) (118.5) (112.5) (101.8) the second decimal place. Treasury stock excludes the 472,030 Company shares owned by the execu- tive compensation Board Incentive Plan (BIP) trust account and the share-delivering Employee Stock  Ownership Plan (ESOP). 3,049 1.95 share ratio  Voting (%) Japanese individuals  and others 6.06% Treasury stock 0.77% Other Japanese  corporations 4.73% Distribution of Ownership among  Shareholders: Website: www.tel.com Financial Section Investor Information Foreign institutions  and others 39.23% Japanese ﬁnancial institutions  and securities companies 49.21%