An infinite planet where all beings thrive. TSMC is committed to responsible management.  Innovation and sustainability are our guiding principles  as we strive to build a world of inclusion and common good  from our sphere of IC chips and wafers. In our pursuit for common good, we have made  solid strides with employees, customers, suppliers, investors, and society to scale insurmountable peaks and to strive for better. We galvanize all positive energy for sustainable management and shared prosperity. Join us. Let us create common good and ascend towards a sustainable future of  infinite possibilities. 2020 was an extremely challenging year as the world experienced  social and economic upheaval brought by the COVID-19 pandemic,  and natural disasters occurring under extreme climate conditions  left us with a deep impression of the threat and impact of climate  change on humanity. The importance of ESG (Environmental,  Social, and Governance) is gradually becoming a global consensus.  As a responsible corporate citizen, TSMC endeavors to respond  to climate change and mitigate climate impact to protect our  shared global environment. In addition to signing the world's  largest renewable energy purchase agreement in 2020, we further  committed to using 100% renewable energy for global operations  before 2050, becoming the world's first semiconductor company to  join the RE100 initiative. Over the years, TSMC has held its vision of uplifting society.   We not only focus on our core business to unleash innovation  with groundbreaking thinkers around the world, but also have  systematically charted a long-term strategic direction for our ESG.  The ESG Steering Committee serves as the center for the highest  level of ESG decision-making. With myself serving as Chairperson,  the ESG Steering Committee works with senior TSMC executives in a  variety of fields to link the United Nations' Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs) with the Company's core competitive advantages.  Our five focal points are Green Manufacturing, Responsible Supply  Chain, Diverse & Inclusive Workplace, Talent Development, and  Caring for the Disadvantaged. In 2020, the ESG Steering Committee  pursued its goal of sustainable development and explored  international ESG trends, evaluation standards, and corporate best  practices. At the same time, it set TSMC's long-term ESG goals,  strategies, and public declarations and took a fresh look at how we  execute them. We also launched TSMC's first internal CSR Award to In addition, under the approval and supervision of the ESG Steering  Committee, in 2020 TSMC brought its unique set of professional know- how and resources to support the global fight against the COVID-19  pandemic. In addition to keeping our colleagues healthy and safe and  maintaining normal operations, we also provided needed support to  society. We budgeted US$20 million to provide for the communities  where we operate, including Taiwan, China, Japan, Europe, the United  States, and other areas in urgent need of resources, playing our role as  a corporate citizen through tangible action. Based on a foundation of healthy corporate governance, TSMC  actively carries out its three missions of Acting with Integrity,  Strengthening Environmental Protection, and Caring for the  Disadvantaged. Starting from our core business, we set goals for  execution, evaluate action plans, and maintain positive interactions  with our stakeholders to continue creating value. In addition,  I would like to extend my thanks to everyone in the Company.  It is only because of everyone's enthusiastic cooperation and  persistence that we can continue to improve, grow stronger, and  further meet our commitments to society and the environment to  drive beautiful changes in society. encourage our colleagues to think creatively and participate actively  to bring many innovative projects to life. In 2020, the world was ravaged by the COVID -19 pandemic. TSMC  took comprehensive disease prevention measures to ensure that  operations could continue at wafer fabs around the world and  went on to realize 11,617 product innovations for our customers.  With innovative technologies, people are able to work and learn  remotely. To reduce contact and gatherings, people can use AR/MR  technologies to replace business trips, and smart robots to replace  manual labor for delivering resources. TSMC stands in solidarity with  everyone enduring this challenging time, and we strive to contribute  to the health and welfare of the world.  During this time, we also worked with stakeholders to continue realizing  our Five Major ESG directions as we resolutely progressed towards the  UN's Sustainable Development Goals. In terms of Green Manufacturing,  TSMC is actively using renewable energies, implementing 460 energy- saving measures, and introducing new generations of energy-efficient  equipment. External research results have shown that we save 4GWh  of energy for every 1 GWh of energy used by TSMC for the production of  end products for customers. By increasing our energy efficiency, we are  able to mitigate the impact of climate change. In regards to Building a Responsible Supply Chain, TSMC was able  to drive NT$1.7 trillion in output value among related industries in  2020. Each TSMC employee creates, on average, 6.4 job opportunities  in Taiwan. We shoulder the responsibility that comes with being an  industry leader and have established Supply Online 360, a management  platform for a sustainable supply chain, as well as the TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Academy. To extend the high standards applied to TSMC  Operations and Green Manufacturing, we have also asked suppliers to  conduct EP&L assessment and carbon footprint verification, as well as  set and strive for energy and water conservation goals. In order to Create a Diverse & Inclusive Workplace, TSMC expanded  our Human Rights Policy's scope of management to support  employee and company growth on the basis of a healthy work- life balance. Investments into Talent Development include the  expanded Semiconductor Program and IC Design Program.  We are also providing resources through university research  centers and industry-academia programs to foster generations  of semiconductor professionals. Lastly, when it comes to Caring  for the Disadvantaged, TSMC continues to support global  prevention and treatment efforts against COVID -19 through the  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and the TSMC Charity  Foundation; we have also galvanized efforts from subsidiaries  around the world to contribute to the common good.  TSMC has taken tangible action to support the global sustainability  movement, and we are the only semiconductor company in the  world to be selected into the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)  for 20 consecutive years. As we look to our future, we will stay  true to our unwavering commitment to responsible operations.  We hope that every TSMC colleague stands firm at their post and  continues to bring positive changes to our world. As COVID-19 ravages nations and introduces instability and tense geopolitical situations, TSMC is more committed than  ever to using innovation for greater social welfare. Based on our trinity of strengths that includes technology leadership,  manufacturing excellence, and customer trust, our mission is to be the trusted technology and capacity provider of the  global logic IC industry for years to come. In 2020, TSMC's consolidated revenue reached NT$1,339.3 billion, setting a  new record for 11 consecutive years. While we continue to strive for greater business milestones, we also aim to develop  strong relationships with stakeholders such as employees, shareholders, customers, and suppliers in order to fulfill our  responsibilities as a corporate citizen. We will continue dedicating ourselves to environmental protection, society, and  corporate governance to create common value for a sustainable future. 517.89 Billion >12.4 Million Wafers subsidiaries exceeded 12.4 million 12- Annual capacity of the manufacturing  facilities managed by TSMC and its  processes for volumn production,  maintaining leading position First foundry to apply 5nm around the world. ▪  Application Processors (AP)   ▪  Baseband   ▪  RF Transceivers   ▪  Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN)   ▪  CMOS Image Sensors (CIS)   ▪  Near Field Communication (NFC)   ▪  Bluetooth   ▪  Global Positioning Systems (GPS), etc. ▪  Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) ▪  AI Machine Learning Processors ▪  High-speed Networking Chips, etc. ▪  CMOS Image Sensors (CIS)   ▪  Near Field Communication (NFC)   ▪  Bluetooth   ▪  Embedded Flash Memory, etc. Empower Wearables, Smart  Homes, Smart Cities, and  Industry 4.0 Applications ▪  Microcontroller Unit (MCU)   ▪  Baseband   ▪  RF Transceivers   ▪  Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN)   ▪  CMOS Image Sensors (CIS)   ▪  Near Field Communication (NFC)   ▪  Bluetooth   ▪  Embedded Flash Memory   ▪  Power Management ICs, etc. TSMC continues to advance semiconductor manufacturing process technologies  and services to enable our customers to unleash 11,617 IC innovations in 2020.  These innovations offer products that are more advanced, capable, intelligent,  energy-efficient, and safer, and allow us to greatly increase quality of life and  move towards a sustainable society for the common good. ▪  4K Streaming Set-top  Box (STB)   ▪  AI-embedded Smart  Camera, etc. Unleashing  innovation by  investing US$ 3.72  billion,  a 26%  increase from 2020,  into R&D Patent approval rate in the  U.S., better than any other  top 10 patent holder 64.7% 14.2 Trillion Market  capitalization  (NT$) 1.32 Billion Invested into social  engagement  (NT$) 1.8 Million In 2020, the average  overall salary of a  TSMC new engineer  with a master's degree  is more than NT$1.8  million. The average  overall salary of direct  employees is higher  than NT$1 million,  which is 4 times of the  minimum wage in  Taiwan Cheers Magazine Ranked No.1 in Top 10 Most Admired Companies to Young Generations CommonWealth Magazine Corporate Social Responsibility Award – Large Cap – 1 st Place Taiwan Institute of Sustainable Energy An Admired Employer Power to Change Society TSMC believes in thorough green innovation.  Internally, we are striving for clean production in all  fabs, implementing 460 energy-saving measures  and conserving 500 GWh in 2020. Externally, we are  leading the world in high-performance, energy- saving semiconductor technologies that enable  customers to deliver energy-efficient products.  Calculations using the Industry, Science, and  Technology International Strategy Center's model  reveal that, in 2020, TSMC helped the world  conserve 4 kWh of energy for each 1 kWh spent in  production - a testimony to TSMC's commitment to  green manufacturing both internally and externally. Referring to research results from the American  Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE),  the ISTI discovered that the link between economic  growth and increasing energy consumption can  be decoupled with the introduction of electronic  products and smart product applications. The  adoption of Information and Communication  Technology (ICT) can also add value to industry  productivity, increasing output for the same amount  of resource input (energy, etc.). Upon further  analysis, it was discovered that electronic products  using semiconductors at its core can help conserve  10.7% of global energy (equivalent to 3.27 million  GWh) in 2030. Considering the semiconductor/ A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Semiconductor  products are  estimated to help  conserve 3.27 million  GWh globally in  2030; TSMC will be  contributing to 0.17  million GWh of the  energy conserved electronic product ratio and TSMC market share,  TSMC products produced for customers will  conserve 0.17 million GWh in 2030, which is four  times the energy consumed during production.  With the help of research development that has  introduced ways to make products and processes  more energy efficient, TSMC continues to realize  increasingly energy-efficient ICT applications and  thereby assists other industries and communities  with energy conservation. TSMC is dedicated to maintaining its  technology leadership and strives to  reduce energy consumption during the  production process for the advancement of  semiconductor innovation, various smart  applications of electronic products, and  energy conservation on a global scale. Stephen Su TSMC continues to lead the world in high-performance  energy-saving semiconductor technologies, helping  customers produce energy-efficient end products. 55nm Ultra- low power （1.2V） 10nm （0.75V） 40nm Ultra- low power （1.1V） 28nm High  performance  mobile  computing （0.9V） Scenario 3: Accelerated  Growth in Electronic  Products Application 16/12nm  Compact  （0.8V） 0.07 0.056 0.034 0.022 7nm （0.75V） 5nm （0.75V） 0.68 Million GWh Saved 30.55 32.45 29.18 1.90 Million  GWh Saved 1.37 Million  GWh Saved TSMC has a massive supply chain that spans across  the world and the Company is always thinking of  management directives to strengthen the capability  and resilience of its supply chain and extend its  influence to upstream suppliers of its own suppliers.  In 2020, the Company founded the TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Academy and started creating and  sharing online courses and management tools  for free. By designating compulsory courses and  tracking training status, the Company was able to General Public ensure that tier 1 suppliers continued to improve  their sustainability management capabilities and  help supplier employees understand their labor  rights. TSMC hopes that this can effectively raise  labor rights awareness across the supply chain  and help supplier employees protect themselves.  Meanwhile, the Company has made the TSMC  Supplier Sustainability Academy available to tier 2  suppliers (suppliers of TSMC's suppliers) and the  general public upon registration. As a supplier, we felt that the establishment  of the TSMC Supplier Sustainability  Academy not only encourages us to make  progress but also provides corresponding  resources to help the supply chain work  together for common good. Andrew Chang The first courses launched for the TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Academy revolved around the TSMC  Supplier Code of Conduct. There were five interactive,  compulsory courses on labor, safety and health,  environmental protection, and ethics. Each course  was designed to contain an exam upon completion  to ensure the quality of learning. All tier 1 suppliers  are asked to complete 100% of the training in 2021. As the curriculum required integration of internal  resources, the Material Supply Chain Management  Section convened a TSMC Supplier Sustainability  Academy Steering Committee, organizing 7 major  courses across the organization. With the online  learning platform, the Company will continue  to advance supplier capabilities in operations  and quality management to further deepen its  sustainability impact. TSMC is always looking to implement applicable  international standards. Since implementing the  Electronic Human Factors System, the Company has  continued to identify workplace hazards and conduct  risk assessment and control for the uncovering,  analysis, and elimination of occupational hazards.  TSMC strives to create a healthy and safe workplace  for our employees. In 2020, to effectively reduce  ergonomic hazards from long-term, repetitive  operations that warehouse employees must endure,  TSMC has developed the world's first Automated  Handling System for Wafer Warehouses. The system  has been officially launched at Fab 18A and is being  introduced to Fab 14A. It can effectively reduce 95%  of the load for warehouse employees per person/per By the end of 2022, the system will be gradually  introduced into all of the 12-inch GIGAFAB® Facilities  in Taiwan. Wafers, a raw material that is required for TSMC  production, is delivered to our loading docks every day  by suppliers. TSMC warehouse employees will then take  out the packaged wafers, place them on a conveyor  belt, and transport it to the clean room for production.  To build a safer workplace and optimize efficiency  of daily operational processes, TSMC has launched  a Human Factor Engineering- Wafer Warehouse  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Automation project where we install an Automated  Handling Systems for Wafer Warehouses and reduced  the handling load for each warehouse employee  by 1.8 metric tons per day. With the introduction of  the automated system, the Material Supply Chain  Management Section will be adjusting job duties and  offering on-the-job trainings to warehouse employees.  Employees originally working in loading will now be  channeled into supply chain management, process  integration, and other more technical duties to help the  employee grow with the Company. The first thing I used to think of when I  opened my eyes every day was the endless  stream of wafer cassettes that I would have  to handle. With the automated handling  system, I no longer suffer from back pains  and have been given the opportunity and  new mission to learn about supply chain  management. The work now is definitely  more fulfilling!  Chung Yang-Yi Robotic arm places wafer cassettes onto conveyor belt and into the warehouse. TSMC launched a series of semiconductor programs  in partnership with six universities in Taiwan to  raise the competencies of semiconductor talents in  Taiwan. The programs bridge students to industry  trends and development so that they can effectively  apply their academic knowledge to the development  of advanced semiconductor process technologies  that are increasingly complex. Jointly developed  by TSMC experts in various fields and partnering  university professors, the courses focus on three  aspects, Device/Integration, Process/Module, and  Equipment Engineering. Each program covers 20 to 40 courses on specific subjects planned by a  curriculum development committee consisting of  TSMC executives who also teach classes to bridge the  gap between academia and industry and to equip  students with core knowledge and competencies  required for semiconductor talents in advance. As of  2020, a total of 650 students have enrolled in TSMC's  semiconductor programs as elective courses. The semiconductor programs also provide students  with internship opportunities and job interviews.  Differentiated compensation packages are offered to  proactive and outstanding students as an incentive  to join the semiconductor industry. The program is  expected to include 10 universities by 2024,  which will  bring up the number of student beneficiaries to 1,800.  The three primary course themes will also extend to  five areas of expertise to cover IC design and intelligent  manufacturing. Amid global competition and challenges,  the program will be a consistent effort to enhance  industry competitiveness in Taiwan in the long run. Most of the students are not quite clear about which courses  will be helpful for their future career. TSMC's semiconductor  programs provide a comprehensive framework to help  students better understand the connection between courses  and the practices. The programs also provide students  with necessary knowledge and competitiveness in the  semiconductor field to accelerate the learning curve after  joining the workforce. Chih Chen TSMC launched a series of semiconductor programs in partnership with six universities in Taiwan. Semiconductor programs are like a precious book. It  helps me to start studying related courses as well as to  prepare myself with the necessary knowledge and ability  earlier, so that I can get ready for either doing research or  joining the industry. Shi-Chih Yang In 2020, TSMC budgeted US$20 million to join  global efforts against COVID-19 and also brought  its unique set of professional know-how and  resources in global procurement and supply chain  management to provide support for in-need  medical or educational institutes in locations where  the Company operates. In Taiwan, the TSMC Charity Foundation supplied  powered air-purifying respirators (PAPR) to medical  centers to reduce risk of infection among frontline  medical workers; the TSMC Education and Culture  Foundation donated infrared cameras to the Ministry  of Education which would be used in national entrance  exams, etc. to protect the safety of our students. Globally, TSMC North America donated sufficient  supplies of critical personal protective equipment and ventilators to local public health agencies,  and its donation efforts also assisted in supporting  the County's Field Respite Center established for  quarantined COVID-19 patients. It also provided  relief to vulnerable communities with immediate  food, shelter and medical aid. TSMC Europe donated  personal protective equipment, respirators, and other  ICU equipment to medical centers across Europe; and  also took advantage of its supply chain and logistics  management resources to accelerate the delivery  of medical supplies and equipment. In Asia, TSMC  (Nanjing) donated protective clothing, goggles, gloves,  and other necessities to community health centers;  and computers to local schools and after-school care  centers to ensure that students will be able to have  unlimited access to online learning resources despite  the pandemic. TSMC Japan collaborated with local  governments to donate supplies to support COVID-19  prevention and treatment efforts. Top: The Hospital Quirónsalud Toledo in Spain receiving ventilators donated by TSMC. Middle: Sophie Chang, TSMC Charity Foundation Chairperson, helping medical workers with PAPRs. Bottom: TSMC employees around the world working together to support COVID-19 relief efforts. medical research on COVID-19 diagnosis, vaccine,  and treatment by the Foundation for the National  Institutes of Health (FNIH) and funded UC Berkeley's  successful research in converting low-cost positive- pressure ventilators into expensive ventilators  needed to treat critically ill COVID-19 patients. The  research was able to cushion the impact of the  global medical equipment shortage. We appreciate TSMC's generosity. Its efforts  allowed the PreVENT team to design,  manufacture, and deliver around 1,000  ventilators to developing nations. This  helped physicians save lives during the  COVID-19 peak last summer. I believe this  is an outstanding example of industry- academia collaboration. Tsu-Jae King Liu Dean and Roy W. Carlson Professor of Engineering  at the UC Berkeley College of Engineering TSMC's ESG Policy is the top guiding principle  for our sustainable development. The TSMC ESG  Matrix set by TSMC's Founder, Dr. Morris Chang,  clearly defines TSMC's ESG scope. In response to  the vision of "Uplifting Society", TSMC implements  sustainability governance effectively in its core  business of dedicated IC foundry services through  the ESG Implementation Framework. TSMC actively  develops positive relationships with all stakeholders,  including employees, shareholders/ investors,  customers, suppliers/ contractors, and society to  create shared value and pursue a sustainable future. Chairman chairs the ESG Steering Committee and the ESG Committee chair acts as the executive secretary. Senior  executives from various functions work alongside the two committee chairs to evaluate the Company's core operational  capacity, establish mid-to-long term ESG goals, and align UN SDGs with the Company's core advantages for a  development blueprint. In compliance with the vision and mission of the TSMC ESG Policy, TSMC is fulfilling its responsibility as a corporate  citizen and has established the ESG Steering Committee  Note, the highest level ESG decision-making center. TSMC's Note: The CSR Executive Committee was renamed as the ESG Executive Committee in March 2021; the CSR Committee was renamed as the ESG Committee at  the same time. TSMC cultivates semiconductor  talent and create an innovative  workplace. We encourage  colleagues to tackle the  challenges before them  and develop world-leading  semiconductor technologies  to help customers enable their   innovation and usher the world  into a better future. Semiconductor is at the core of  modern technological innovation  and continues to drive the  advancement of our lives. We are  committed to building meaningful  partnerships with our customers  around the world, developing a  sustainable technology roadmap,  and together, we provide eco- friendly products that are more  powerful and more energy-efficient. Kevin Zhang TSMC strives for sustainable  management and, in the spirit of  shared prosperity, we strike close  partnerships with customers and  suppliers to pursue excellence,  while maintaining the quality  of our responsible supply chain  through high levels of innovation. Jun He Note: Executives arranged in the order of their responsible chapters within the Report. Customer trust is one of the  core values at TSMC. We build  long-term partnerships with our  customers, and through relentless  pursuit of technology innovation,  manufacturing excellence and  close collaboration, we deliver  innovative products that drive  positive change to society. Suppliers are important  partners to TSMC on the road  to sustainable management.  We hope to build a responsible  supply chain through raising  ESG standards across the supply  chain and drive positive change  through the Supply Online 360,  an online management platform  for a global sustainable supply  chain, as well as the TSMC  Supplier Sustainability Academy. The ESG Committee is an interdepartmental communication platform that serves to ensure ESG Steering Committee  decisions are upheld. ESG Committee members are senior executives appointed to the Committee by Chairman Mark  Liu and are tasked with the goal of aligning with international standards, gaining insight into international trends, and  building a top-down operation model across the company. ESG Committee members will also spearhead annual  SDG objectives and strategies across different committees, track performance, and balance stakeholder interests to  ultimately ensure that ESG Strategies are fully integrated into the Company's daily operations. We've continued to  make efforts towards  Green Manufacturing. By  developing innovative  approaches, we've been able  to use the most eco-friendly  approach to manufacturing  chips and create maximum  value with minimum  resources. Talent is one of the most important  assets to the Company and a driving  force to move the industry and  society forward. We foster a diverse  and inclusive workplace and recruit  talent with shared values. In the  meantime, we also strengthen the  collaboration with universities to  nurture talent for the future of the  semiconductor industry. In response to the  COVID-19  pandemic, the TSMC Education  and Culture Foundation took the  initiative to donate hundreds of  infrared thermometers to Taiwan's  Ministry of Education to protect the  safety and health of students. In  addition, we've continued to invest  more resources in our effort to  close education gap and to create  a better environment for arts and  cultural activities. Tseng Getting ESG right is important  not just for TSMC. We want to  share what we have so that  love and caring will continue  to flourish and make Taiwan a  better place. Note: Executives arranged in the order of their responsible chapters within the Report. Grounded in excellent corporate  governance and the core value  of "integrity," TSMC ensures that  ethics, regulatory compliance,  and risk management measures  are incorporated into daily  business practices. In carrying out sustainable  management, TSMC lives out  its belief that corporate growth  and environmental sustainability  can go hand in hand. We aim to  establish long-term investment  value and deliver outstanding  return on investment through  strong financial performance,  stable dividend policies, and  comprehensive corporate  governance. As we progress towards corporate sustainability, TSMC  places great importance on the expectations and demands  of internal and external stakeholders. As such, TSMC has  established a framework for ESG disclosure in compliance  with the latest AA 1000 Accountability Principle issued  in 2018. The framework is established on the four major  principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness, and  Impact. Each year, TSMC regularly evaluates stakeholder  feedback and ESG trends through diverse communication  channels. We also continue to conduct materiality analysis  to identify material ESG topics and establish long-term  ESG targets, adopt action plans, and track ESG progress  and efficacy accordingly. GRI Standards are also adopted  by TSMC as the enduring standard for identifying material  issues within TSMC. We have integrated ERM (enterprise  risk management) to assess the trends and impact of risks  posed by material ESG issues, explain to the public how  TSMC is mitigating risks, and build a resilient organization  capable of thriving under changing global landscapes. In compliance with the AA 1000 SES (Stakeholder Engagement Standards,  SES), TSMC regards the following six stakeholders as the major stakeholders for  engagement: employees, shareholders/investors, customers, suppliers/vendors,  and government & society (community, academic institutions, media, NGO/ NPO). By evaluating global sustainability trends and engaging with internal/ external stakeholders, TSMC identified 21 ESG issues relevant to TSMC in 2020. The six major stakeholders  that TSMC should engage with  are employees, shareholders/ investors, customers, suppliers/ vendors, government &  society (community, academic  institutions, media, NGO/NPO). A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer Identify sustainability issues relevant to  TSMC through global sustainability standards  (GRI Standards, ISO 26000, RBA, SDGs, SASB,  TCFD, and UN Global Compacts), sustainable  investing indices (CDP, DJSI, MSCI ESG Index,  and SDGs Invest), Company development  goals, and stakeholder communication. In 2020, materiality analysis was conducted through surveys due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Each organization evaluated influential stakeholders that TSMC frequently engaged with,  and issued ESG surveys to said stakeholders. We received 842 replies in 2020, and used the  surveys to analyze their level of interest in ESG issues relevant to TSMC. The ESG Steering  Committee, led by Chairman Mark Liu, and the ESG Committee Chairperson and Senior  Vice President Lora Ho would spearhead efforts to analyze the impacts of each issue on  operations (profitability, revenue, customer satisfaction, employee cohesion, risk) and  review the sustainability roadmap for long-term development with a total of 150 colleagues  that included TSMC's senior vice presidents, vice presidents, senior fab directors, and fab  directors. Survey respondents  included shareholders/ investors (25), employees  (511), customers (32),  suppliers/vendors (136),  government/industry  associations (7), and the  public (131). A total of 150 colleagues  including the Chairman,  senior vice presidents,  vice presidents, senior  fab directors, and  fab directors worked  together to identify how  ESG issues would impact  TSMC operations. According to the results  from step 3 & 4, we have  mapped out the TSMC  materiality matrix. The  ESG Committee has  discussed and agreed on  the results, identifying 14  material issues. The ESG Committee was able to identify 14 ESG issues  as material based on materiality analysis in 2020. TSMC  assessed each issues' impact on the boundaries of TSMC's  value chain from supply chain and company operations  to  customers. Pursuant to GRI Standards, we have also  identified 23 material topics specific to TSMC in alignment  with the ESG issues and collected internal information, data,  and management approaches for disclosure in compliance  with reporting regulations. Corporate governance, risk  management, ethics, regulatory compliance, economic  performance, tax policies, and information security are  seven issues classified under General Disclosures by the GRI  Standards. While they will not be mapped in the materiality  matrix, relevant information will be disclosed annually. Procurement, wafer  fabrication, packaging/ testing, and customer use  are the four major stages of  TSMC's value chain which  determine sustainability  disclosure boundaries to  help identify the impact of  such issues on our upstream  and downstream stages. 6 We have aligned the 14 material  issues with the 23 specific  topics in the GRI Standards to  collect and disclose relevant  information based on the  reporting requirements and  management approach  dictated by GRI. 7 8 9 Internal organizations  formulated 74 long-term  goals for material ESG issues  to be achieved in 2030. TSMC has established 2030 targets for each  material ESG issue. The ESG Committee will  regularly review progress towards annual targets  and formulate changes to the following year  accordingly. Plans, progress, and changes will be  disclosed in the annual CSR Report for external  parties. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer ESG Committee  meetings are held  every quarter where  internal organizations  will report on their  progress, tracking, and  management. Note: Corporate governance, risk management, ethics, regulatory compliance, financial performance, tax policy, and information security topics are classified  under General Disclosures by GRI and are generally result-oriented. The above issues will, therefore, not be represented in the materiality matrix but  relevant information will be regularly disclosed in the Company's annual report, Company website, CSR Report, ESG website and ESG Newsletter Advanced processes involve  increasingly complex  technologies, higher  production costs, and more  complicated supply chains.  The Company's competitive  edge and market share could  suffer if we are unable to  identify technological changes  and develop new technologies TSMC shall protect R&D results  with patents to ensure we  remain technological leaders  in the industry and to protect  the operational freedom of  TSMC and our clients across  the world. Inadequate patent  protection could impact TSMC's  technological competitiveness Please refer to "Innovation  Management" in this report  and  "6.3 Risk Management" in  the 2020 Annual Report" for our  approach Wafer quality control grows  increasingly difficult as products  become more complex. Inability to  detect defects could incur a loss to  our clients and impact Company  reputation Please refer to "6.3 Risk  Management" in the 2020 Annual  Report and "Supplier Sustainability  Management" in this report for our  approach Please refer to "6.3 Risk Management" in the 2020 Annual Report and "Occupational Safety and  Health" in this report for our approach Emerging infectious diseases   (e.g., COVID-19) Cluster infections of  emerging infectious  diseases (e.g., COVID-19) inside the Company  could result in disrupted  operations ▪ Strengthened employee training and offered more opportunities for internal transfers so  that our employees can grow with the Company    ▪ Continued to host various art, family, and sports events as well as clubs to facilitate a better  work-life balance among employees   ▪ Introduced the latest Industry 4.0 and Industrial AI technology to build a knowledge base  for engineering analysis and make knowledge smarter ▪  Updated ethics and regulatory compliance training materials. Employee training  completion rate was 99.72% with 50,482 employees having received training; management  training completion rate was 100% with 5,425 managers having received trainings. It's been years since I worked at  TSMC,  and I'm very happy that I was  dispatched by my school to TSMC for  the industry-academia partnership.   I am working with TSMC and  outstanding professors to advance  exploratory research, narrow the  gap between the industry and  schools, and cultivate outstanding  semiconductor professionals  through the semiconductor courses. Marvin M.F. Chang Director of Corporate Research, TSMC ▪ With the support of strong operating performance and future  growth potential, TSMC has been providing positive return to  investors for 12 consecutive years   ▪ TSMC distributed cash dividends on a quarterly basis.  Shareholders of TSMC common shares received a total of NT$10  cash dividend per share in 2020 ▪ Disclosed ESG information and data according to semiconductor  industry indicators issued by SASB (Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board). Held Climate Risk & Opportunities Workshops  to identify climate risks and opportunities according to the TCFD  framework (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures); a  total of 5 climate risks (inc. zero emission trends) and 1 opportunity  (improve company reputation) were added in 2020 TSMC's unrelenting pursuit of  technology leadership, commitment  to long-term shareholder returns  and professional investor  communication reflect its impressive  values, business philosophy and  culture. We look forward to seeing  the Company's unique business  model empower many wonderful  technological innovations in the  decades ahead, while creating  win-win partnerships with its  stakeholders. ▪ By using a dynamic hotspot failure identification approach at the  system level, we were able to increase the success rate of failure  analysis, accelerate the development of new processes, and  speed up the trouble-shooting stage during customer designs.  This helped to reduce process flaws and make products more  reliable ▪ TSMC created information protection protocols, built automated  information security management system, and obtained ISO 27001  certification to be compliant with international security standards. Fab  12B/14A/15B have received ISO 15408 certifications, guaranteeing  the highest level of safe production and information protection for our  customers. All fabs with ISO 15408 certifications are ready to receive  high security level orders and ensure optimal safety management in  the production process and along the supply chain Customers appreciate TSMC's support, which enables new products to be quickly  completed from design to mass production. With TSMC's expertise in advanced  wafer fabrication technology and  support in quality and reliability  assurance, MediaTek is able to  offer leading innovative designs  that fulfill the strict requirements  for high-end chipset solutions,  recognized by tier-one clients  around the world. HW Kao  Corporate Vice President, MediaTek TSMC's customer service teams  have a clear understanding of our  manufacturing needs and fights  hard to support our interests. They  always provide prompt responses  and are very professional in handling  issues. It is a pleasure to work  with them. We hold them as the  benchmark for service excellence.  Please keep up good work and  momentum on the support.  Dilip Vijay VP and GM of APD/CSG/DCSG, Broadcom ▪ All tier 1 suppliers signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and  complied with business ethics (completion rate: 100%). ▪ 24 critical suppliers completed third-party supplier audits  on sustainability risk by RBA-certified institutions; 12  suppliers received consultation on process advancement  and quality improvement. We should shoulder the  responsibility for environmental  protection and strive to develop  innovative green technologies by  advancing processes, reducing  industrial waste, and preventing  pollution. We look forward  to working with TSMC in the  future and fulfilling our social  responsibilities. Regional Director of Entegris Asia  LLC, Taiwan Branch President Chen Chou-Sin accepting a TSMC Outstanding Supplier Award on behalf of Chang Chun  Petrochemical Co., Ltd. from J.K. Lin, Senior Vice President of Information Technology and Materials  Management & Risk Management of TSMC. Sustainability should be the  cornerstone of corporate growth.  We are happy to be partnering  with TSMC towards sustainable  operations and a positive cycle. President of Chang Chun Petrochemical  Co., Ltd., a Subsidiary Company of  Chang Chun Group ▪ Conferences (e.g., briefings,  public hearings, symposia,  seminars, meetups)/as  needed Concerned with the development of advanced process technologies, ESG actions, overseas  investments, and environmental regulations (GHG, toxic substances, air pollution/water pollution,  etc.) revision trends; sharing of Occupational Safety and Health management experience and  discussions on regulations ▪ Application for U.S. investments ▪ Visited the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, upon invitation, to share  development trends in semiconductor technologies and TSMC's technologies TSMC is the first semiconductor  company in the world to join RE100,  showing exemplary foresight,  pioneering 100% renewable energy  practices, and spearheading change  among other corporations. A fire equipment training course at TSMC's  own fire training grounds. The grounds are  equipped with a variety of equipment to ensure  suppliers can learn how to operate them. ▪ In 2020, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  invested NT$ 99.85 million to support diverse education  programs with our three cornerstones: Cultivate Young  Generation, Educational Collaboration, Promote Arts and  Culture. To strengthen ESG and the influence of women, the  Foundation hosted the TSMC Youth Dream Building Project  to give young Taiwanese people the opportunity to realize a  sustainable future through creativity, and also organized five  "TSMC Journeys of Female Scientist Lectures" to cultivate  outstanding talents for Taiwan. ▪ In 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation devoted funds,  material resources, and volunteers to target four charity  projects: Caring for Elders Living Alone, Promoting Filial  Piety, Taking Care of the Disadvantaged, and Environmental  Protection. The Foundation focused on putting  resources into Education in Remote Areas and Aid for the  Disadvantaged, with 10,451 volunteers serving nearly 64,000  hours. Donations exceeded NT$160 million. Student of Dept. of Industrial Design,  National United University, Wining  teams member from the 3 rd & the 4 th  TSMC Youth Dream Building Project  competition I would like to thank the TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation  for showing young students what it  takes to realize your dream through  the TSMC Youth Dream Building  Project. It's challenging,  but it gave  us a better idea of where we stand. The Intelligent Engineering Center conducting experimental science education with students in  Meihua Elementary School in Hsinchu County. During this pandemic, TSMC has  been incredibly supportive. I'd like to  thank the TSMC Charity Foundation  for offering personal protective gear  and health supplements but also for  appreciating the efforts of medical  laboratory scientists. TSMC provides advanced processes and technology platforms to help customers realize innovations, drive the success and  application of their products, and create value for society and stakeholders. This is a manifestation of the "Better, Together"  spirit and a critical reason why TSMC can continue to grow and exert influence. TSMC believes in integrity leadership and has Foster an organizational culture  that doesn't commit casually,   but when it does, devotes fully  to the commitment. Set long- term goals for sustainability  issues, strive for change, review  progress regularly, and continue  to commit to doing better created a sustainability impact management framework based on the Company's strong governance foundation, six major  capitals, four core elements, six sustainable management competencies, and Environmental Profit and Loss (EP&L) valuation  model to evaluate and manage the entire value chain's contribution to society. 117 88.0 80.3 51,728  58,740  58,893 In 2020, TSMC completed an economic,  environmental, and social impact evaluation  and introduced results for Supply Chain  Employee Compensation and Corporate  Volunteers. We also completed the  sustainability impact valuations based  on a triple bottom line (TBL). For more  information, please refer to sustainability  impact valuations in this report. Note 1: "Supply Chain Output Value Driven by TSMC"  in 2020 was calculated with assistance from the  Industrial Economics & Knowledge Center using the  Input-Output Table in 2016 issued by the Directorate  General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics (DGBAS)  with corrections using the RAS method. Data from  2018-2019 has also been adjusted. Note 2: Environmental Profit and Loss (EP&L) presented  in this section is the monetary assessment of  possible external impacts from TSMC's purchase and  production. For the costs and economic benefits  arising from the implementation of environmental  protection projects, please refer to "Environmental  Cost" in TSMC's 2020 annual report. For the EP&L  methodology, please refer to the TSMC 2020  Environmental Profit and Loss (EP&L) Report. Note 3: GHG emissions data and subsequent EP&L from  2018-2019 are updated here. Note 4: Environmental Impact of the Supply Chain includes  only suppliers who had more than 3 transactions  with TSMC in 2020 and with amounts exceeding  NT$10 million. A total of 1,041 suppliers meet  the criteria. Their environmental impact is then  calculated through the Environmentally Extended  Input Output  (EEIO) analysis. The selection criteria  for suppliers was amended in 2020 to include  factory and equipment suppliers. Data from 2018- 2019 are also adjusted. TSMC has constructed a Sustainability Impact  Strategy Map derived from causal relationships. The  map is constructed through the integration of P&L  and sustainable management and it evaluates the  TSMC value chain's social impact from an outside-in  perspective. Since 2018, TSMC has been collaborating  with the Corporate Sustainability Impact Center of  Tunghai University to introduce an EP&L valuation model  that is capable of converting all environmental footprints  produced throughout production & operations into  monetary social costs into our Total ESH Management  system (TSM). In 2020, in terms of TSMC operations, TSMC generated NT$  1.339 trillion in operating revenue, made a provision of  NT$331.7 billion for depreciation and amortization, and  issued NT$259.3 billion in cash dividend. TSMC not only  helped customers succeed and suppliers become more  sustainable, but also offered good returns to its investors.  In terms of social value, we paid NT$199.7 billion in  taxes and payroll, supporting our government to expand  infrastructure and social welfare, and to create more job  opportunities; volunteer services from TSMC created  NT$80.32 million in social benefit while occupational  injuries resulted in NT$12.9 million in social costs.  Environmental footprints and resource consumption from  the production process resulted in an environmental cost  of NT$15.7 billion. In terms of the upstream supply chain,  TSMC generated NT$ 1.802 trillion output value in the  supply chain, created 190 thousand job opportunities and  NT$157.6 billion in payroll, and resulted in NT$11.5 billion  in environmental costs. TSMC introduced EP&L into production & operations management in 2018 and further  applied EP&L analysis to the upstream supply chain in 2019. We conducted hot spot  analysis through Environmentally Extended Input Output (EEIO) and started surveying  each key supplier using a life cycle approach. As of 2020, we have surveyed and analyzed  over 40 suppliers. In 2020, our investigation showed that TSMC had experienced minor increases in  environmental externalities from production and operations over the past three  years. The main cause for the rise is an increasing demand for energy, water, and raw  materials due to new factories and evolving advanced processes. To reduce social  costs from energy consumption, TSMC achieved decreases in externalities from air  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer Procurement pollution and waste through low carbon manufacturing, improving energy efficiency,  and increasing use of renewable energies; in 2020, the environmental externalities per  unit product had reduced by 7% from the previous year. In terms of the supply chain,  environmental externalities derived from TSMC procurement are largely concentrated  in PM2.5 and GHG emissions from the production of chemical materials and chemical  products. TSMC will continue to strive towards a responsible supply chain and ask that  our suppliers commit to pollution control and reduced energy resource consumption.  We intend to conduct an environmental survey on suppliers in 2021, to further uncover  ways to reduce our environmental footprint, increase social welfare, make our supply  chain more sustainable, and create more synergy for the value chain. For more details,  please refer to the TSMC 2020 Environmental Profit and Loss (EP&L) Report. From purchasing and TSMC operations to customer use, TSMC has outlined a strategy map for the value chain derived from the causal relationship between these interconnected lines to comprehensively evaluate our actions. Monetary value  serves as a sustainable management tool to measure the potential external costs (-) and values (+) generated by TSMC on the economy, environment, and society. Note 1: The "Strategy Map" is derived from the Balanced Scorecard, a performance management tool researched and  developed by Robert S. Kaplan and David P. Norton in the late 1990s. The Balanced Scorecard connects goals with  driving factors to serve as a tool for management $1,080.2Billion Economic Value $1,280.4Billion TSMC is taking advantage of its position as a leading global  semiconductor foundry to improve the technology and capability  of local suppliers, as well as drive development and output value  for the semiconductor value chain. To address supply chain  sustainability issues, we actively work towards a responsible  supply chain to reduce environmental and social impact. Environmental Value -$15.7Billion Energy Efficient Products -$11.5Billion $157.6Billion Social Value $199.8Billion TSMC is innovation-oriented and aims to mitigate social costs and impact from energy  consumption with the use of renewable energies, reclaimed water, and the circular economy. We  hope to foster a humanistic culture and offer equal opportunities, a healthy and safe workplace,  and competitive compensation and benefits. We also encourage employees to engage in social  participation and work with the Company to create positive change for society. Note 2: The "TSMC Sustainability Impact Strategy Map" employs concepts of performance management to connect predicted results in value chain activities with causality among driving  factors. We then apply the concept of P&L to identify positive or negative impacts on the economy, environment, and society. Such positive or negative impacts include direct or  indirect economic value as well as the external costs or benefits brought onto the natural environment or society. TSMC is using a new generation of process technologies  to help customers realize innovation and improve energy  efficiency. We aim to use technology to better human health,  safety, and convenience while at the same time working to  build a low-carbon society. 57.8Billion kWh TSMC operations, and customer use. With guidance from the ESG Steering Committee, TSMC has set five ESG goals  and selected nine primary SDGs. With the ESG Committee, we were able to integrate inter-organizational resources and  Humanity now faces grave challenges. In the face of such challenges, TSMC is focusing on improving core business  competencies through our ten business philosophies and four core values. We are striving to fulfill our five sustainability roles  and drive SDGs throughout the semiconductor industry by influencing the three major stages of upstream procurement, Care for the Disadvantaged Integrate Company resources and  voluntary employee volunteer services.  Build a society of common good and  deliver the power of love and societal  influence through education and daily life Understand and  Prioritize SDGs 9 SDGs TSMC identifies the link between SDGs, the five sustainability roles, and value chain  stages through the following three steps: Understand & Prioritize SDGs, Goals &  Integration, and Disclosure and Communication. Long-term goals and action plans  are then formulated accordingly. capabilities to formulate 44 timely and quantifiable long-term goals and implement 24 corresponding actions toward  sustainability. We are integrating SDGs into our organizational culture and daily operations, and with Goal 17 of the SDGs –  and engagement to uncover opportunities for growth in the governance/economic, environmental, and social dimensions.  We hope that we can join together in a sustainable future with shared values. global partnerships – at the core, we are collaborating with internal/external stakeholders through participation, cooperation, Innovation is the foundation for growth and the driver for breakthroughs at TSMC. As the  leader of the dedicated IC foundry industry, we embrace innovation from each and every TSMC  employee. We use the world's leading technologies to produce high-quality, energy-efficient,  and sustainable products and thereby assist in solving the various challenges humanity faces. As a world-leading IC foundry, TSMC views responsible procurement as our mission. We  hope to exert our influence and create a green semiconductor supply chain by encouraging  upstream/downstream suppliers to make progress in technology, quality, delivery,  environmental protection, human rights, occupational safety and health, etc. Green manufacturing is the cornerstone of sustainable management at TSMC. We believe that  there can be mutual prosperity between business growth and the environment. Therefore, we  have deeply entrenched green management into daily operations. By introducing innovative  green technologies, we continue to address climate change, energy management, water  management, waste management, and air pollution control as we stay committed to becoming  the global benchmark for eco-friendly companies. Employees are TSMC's most important asset. We value mutual commitments with our employees.  We dedicate ourselves to creating a challenging and enjoyable work environment full of  opportunities to acquire new skills, establishing an open-style management system, providing  compensation and benefits packages that are above the industry average for employees, and  becoming a world-class company that our employees are proud of. TSMC is based in Taiwan and has been able to thrive because of support from across society.  We believe in giving back to the society that has given us so much, and we do so through the  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and TSMC Charity Foundation. To give back and  create common good, the Foundations are dedicated to caring for the disadvantaged, youth  education, and culture and arts. Help suppliers implement water conservation measures  and reach 3.5 million metric tons in cumulative amount of Use Renewable Energy Renewable energy to account for 20% of energy consumption  in new fabs after adopting 3nm processes. Continue increasing  renewable energy purchases annually until 25% of fabs' power  consumption is supplied from renewable energy and non-fab  power consumption is 100% from renewable energy Since TSMC's 2020 Sports Day was canceled due to the pandemic, TSMC decided to allocate  NT$20 million from the Sports Day budget to kick off the "TSMC Little Baseball Hero Support  Program," which is TSMC's first crossover collaboration with the Taiwan Aboriginal Baseball  Development Association (TABDA) and the Taiwan Basegarden Baseball Development Association  (TBBDA). The program aims to support young baseball players establish an education foundation,  build up self-confidence, and unleash their potential. The TSMC Little Baseball Hero Support Program supports TABDA to offer training to baseball  coaches on sports nutrition, injury prevention, sports science, and applications. Through the  development of players' second skills, the program provides junior high school baseball team  members in Hualien and Taitung with career planning and vocational training. At the same time,  the program supports TBBDA in expanding its current service area by establishing "Baseball  Reading Classrooms" for baseball teams in junior high schools and elementary schools in areas  where the TSMC fabs are located. In addition, a "Baseball Scholarship" will be presented by CPBL  stars to encourage young baseball players to read and establish an educational foundation,  paving the way for their career development. TSMC Vice President T.S. Chang, a baseball enthusiast, leads members of TSMC's Fab 12B Softball  Team and TSMC's Softball Club to visit schools in Hsinchu. They share their knowledge of baseball  and the professional league with kids and help them with schoolwork and life coaching in the  pursuit of their dreams. Promote Workplace Safety Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR) < 0.3 suppliers surveyed  NEW Disabling Severity Rate (SR) < 3 Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees <0.20 Encourage Innovation Maintain TSMC's technology leadership and  invest 8.5% of revenue R&D expenses annually Green Product Innovation Decrease the Product Environmental Footprint  by 30% for each unit product (Base year: 2010) Reduce Industrial Waste Output Outsource ≦ 0.5 of unit waste disposal per wafer  (kg/12-inch equivalent wafer mask layers)  Promote a Circular Economy  Develop multiple types of electronics-grade  chemicals for recycling within TSMC To fulfill its commitment to ESG and sustainable social development,  TSMC continues to drive positive changes in the world through tangible  actions. In 2020, TSMC launched its first CSR AWARD to acknowledge  the fruitful ESG results attained within the Company. This award also  encourages all TSMC employees to propose brilliant ideas pertinent to the  Company's five ESG strategic directions, further inspiring employees to  proactively explore opportunities for improvement within their respective  duties. In addition, by sharing these ideas, the influence of the common  good can be extended outside of TSMC. Within half a month since the  award began accepting entries, we received 785 proposals with 25,883  employees contributing to the growing momentum of TSMC's culture of  sustainability. In a survey, 100% of TSMC employees who participated in the event stated  that through the TSMC CSR AWARD, they realized that fulfilling CSR is not  just a charity cause. More significantly, it enables them to exert influence  through their expertise and contribute to society and the environment. In  addition, 98% of the employees who participated in the event shared that  through the TSMC CSR AWARD, they found the sustainable value of their  jobs and are more inclined to proactively propose sustainable plans in  their daily work and put the plans into action. Innovation is the foundation of growth and driver for breakthroughs at TSMC. As the leader  in the dedicated IC foundry industry, TSMC embraces innovation from every employee. We  insist on producing sustainable products with high quality and low energy consumption  through leading technologies to help resolve the many challenges humanity faces. Innovation Management P.41 Product Quality P.58 Customer Service P.67 Customer satisfaction has  exceeded 90% for seven  consecutive years  92.8 Note : In the wake of adjustments made to the patent portfolio plan for leading technologies, the annual target for 2020 in global patent applications was exceeded, and the long-term goal for 2030 remains unchanged. ▪Maintain TSMC's technology leadership  and invest 8.5% of revenue R&D expenses  annually In response to the rapidly evolving semiconductor  industry, TSMC has been striving to build an innovative  workplace that highly encourages innovation since its  establishment. In the face of challenges imposed by  competitors and advanced process technology in 2020,  TSMC continued to enhance the Company's leading  technological competitive advantages through an  internal incentive scheme for innovation. Employees  are encouraged to bring forth a variety of innovations to  enhance organizational innovation vitality. Meanwhile,  we also dedicate resources to helping our customers, the  industry and academia drive interdisciplinary innovation  collaborations, including product innovation with our  customers, technical talent innovation with research  institutions, and green innovation with our suppliers. ▪Semiconductor Programs   ▪Ph.D. Scholarship   ▪Advanced IC Design Program   ▪University Shuttle Program In 2020, TSMC continued to expand its scale of research  and development. The total R&D expenditure for the year  was US$ 3.72 billion, a 26% increase from the previous  year and 8.2% of the Company's total revenue Note1.  The R&D team has grown to a team of 7,404 people, a  13% increase from the previous year. The scale of R&D  investments is on par with top tech companies worldwide  and even surpasses the scale of some companies.   Faced with the increasingly difficult challenge to continue  extending Moore's Law, which calls for the doubling of  semiconductor computing power every two years, TSMC  has focused its R&D efforts on offering customers first-to- market, leading-edge technologies and design solutions TSMC focuses on offering customers first-to-market,   leading-edge technologies and design solutions. that contribute to their product success. In 2020, following  the application of 5nm technology to mass production, the  Company's R&D organization continued to fuel the pipeline  of technological innovation needed to maintain industry  leadership. For TSMC's 3nm technology, the sixth generation  platform to make use of 3D transistors, TSMC continues full  development with major customers and has completed IP  design and started silicon validation, the Company's research  and pathfinding pushed forward with exploratory studies for  nodes beyond 2nm, which is the leading-edge technology in  the semiconductor industry today.  In addition to complementary-metal-oxide- semiconductor (CMOS) logic, TSMC conducts R&D on a Note 1: As reflected upon the revenue growth in 2020, R&D expenditure is slightly under 8.5% of total revenue.  R&D personnel (number of people) R&D expenditure (million US$) wide range of other semiconductor technologies that  provide the functionalities required by customers for  mobile System-on-Chip (SoC) and other applications,  such as smartphones, high-performance computing, IoT,  and automotive electronics, etc.   In 2020, TSMC maintained its strong partnership with  the world's top research institutions, including the  Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) in the United  States and the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre  (IMEC) in Belgium. The Company also continues research  collaboration with world-class universities, driving  advancement in semiconductor technology and nurturing  future talents. TSMC's most advanced technology that leads in both technology and production capacity, enabling revolutionary  products in 2020.  5nm Fin Field-Effect Transistor (FinFET) (N5) technology Introduce products with industry-leading  RF performances and cost-effectiveness  22ULL RF technology received product tape-outs from over 20 customers in 2020.   22ULL Radio Frequency (RF) (22ULL RF) technology In 2020, TSMC helped customers lead the market in rolling out 0.8µm pixel products. Pixel size was further reduced  to 0.7µm within nine months with timely volume production. The smaller pixel size enables 30% higher resolution  for CIS with the same chip size. Successfully developed InFO-PoP technology, which integrates 5nm SoC (System-on-Chip) and DRAM (dynamic  random access memory) for advanced mobile device applications. This technology helped deliver several  customer products to market in high volume in 2020. Based on 12FFC+ technology and its IP ecosystem, TSMC introduced N12e TM  technology in 2020, bringing TSMC's world- class FinFET transistor technology to AI-enabled Internet of Things (IoT) and other high-efficiency, high-performance  edge devices. This technology offers industry-leading low operating power (Vdd), and excellent low leakage performance  of ultra-low-leakage (ULL) SRAM (static random access memory), and new ultra-low leakage devices. In 2020, TSMC introduced 3DFabric TM, a comprehensive family of 3D silicon stacking and advanced packaging  technologies, which are comprised of frontend TSMC-SoIC TM 3D silicon stacking and backend 3D interconnect  technologies which include CoWoS® (chip on wafer on substrate) and InFO  (integrated fan-out), providing  customers flexible solutions for integration of chiplets. 22ULL Embedded MRAM technology IPs completed reliability qualifications in 2020, with >100K cycle endurance  and reflow capability. This technology demonstrated automotive Grade-1 capability and was applied to volume  production for customer wearable products in 2020. N7 technology began volume production in April of 2018. By the end of 2020, TSMC has used N7 family  technologies to produce more than one billion fully functional and defect-free chips for products to over 100  customers. TSMC successfully helped customers bring monolithic ultrasonic scanners into volume production. 22ULL analog technology platform, which is fully compatible with logical process, was established in 2020. This  platform offers low-noise 2.5-volt input/output (IO) transistors and low temperature-coefficient-of-resistance (TCR)  TaN (Tantalum nitride) thin film resistors to support customers' differentiated analog designs. Semiconductors are transforming many key  industries, including information and communication,  transportation, education, health care, entertainment,  agriculture, etc. because of their greater capabilities  and better energy efficiency through innovations and  breakthroughs. These advancements are critical to  the future of electronics that will bring more positive  impacts on our lives. As the most trusted dedicated  foundry service provider in the world, TSMC continues  to deliver industry-leading, next-generation, leading- edge semiconductor technologies, as well as offer  comprehensive specialty technologies and leading  3D chip stacking and packaging services to help  customers unleash their innovations and deliver more  advanced, more capable, more energy-efficient, and  more affordable products, including smartphones, high  performance computing (HPC), Internet of Things (IoT),  automotive, digital consumer electronics, health care  devices, etc. One remarkable example was our collaboration  with Butterfly Network, which delivered its next- generation Butterfly iQ+, the world's only handheld,  single-probe, whole-body ultrasound system in 2020,  following the debut of its initial model, Butterfly iQ in  2018. By delivering groundbreaking performance and  unparalleled efficiency with faster, sharper, and more detailed imaging, the Butterfly iQ+ helps healthcare  providers around the world save time during diagnosis  and treatment of patients to improve overall patient  outcomes. Leveraging Butterfly Network's most  advanced Ultrasound-on-Chip TM technology and TSMC's  world-leading CMOS MEMS manufacturing technology,  the ultrasound transducers can be seamlessly integrated  on a single chip. The Butterfly iQ+ features 15% faster  frame rates and 60% faster pulse repetition frequency,  to give healthcare practitioners the clarity they need to  help get important insights quickly.  In addition, the Butterfly iQ+ extends battery life by  20% and scanning time by 100% to enhance operation  efficiency. The high-performance imaging capabilities  and excellent operation efficiency make this innovative  product a powerful tool to help healthcare providers  around the world to make timely diagnosis and  decisions for treatment, even if they are in underserved  communities or in remote areas. Additionally, the  innovative Butterfly IQ+ has been shown to be a  particularly useful tool during the global COVID-19  pandemic due to its lung imaging capabilities, portability  and ease of cleaning, as infection control has become  increasingly important. The Butterfly iQ+ marks a big step  forward for point-of-care ultrasound with its innovations  and breakthroughs, and will continue to bring significant  clinical, economic and societal impact going forward.  In total, TSMC deployed 281 distinct process  technologies, and manufactured 11,617 products for  510 customers in 2020 to continue to bring significant  contribution to the advancement of modern society.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society TSMC constructs a global strategic patent portfolio  to secure freedom in business operations, strengthen  leadership in the industry, and protect R&D results in  leading-edge technologies. Based on the Company's  technology leadership in professional semiconductor  manufacturing, the global intellectual property portfolio  strategies combined with innovative analysis methods  of patent map navigation, the battle-tested patents  created through invention mining from R&D technology  blueprints to seize the commanding heights in key  technologies, TSMC generates more patents with higher  R&D investment output rate in the industry. Meanwhile,  under an innovative patent management mechanism,  patent prosecution processes are closely monitored  to ensure quality and efficiency. The Company reviews  patent portfolio regularly, as well as acquiring patents  strategically and/or collaborating with patent alliance(s),  to build a comprehensive patent protection network. TSMC's number of patent published applications in the  U.S. ranked third in 2020, setting a new record in history.  The number of patents issued in the U.S. ranked sixth  on the list, same as the ranking of patent grants in 2018,  the historical record. TSMC also ranks first among the  top ten patent holders in the U.S. in terms of patent  approval rate. The number of global patent grants  accumulated has reached 45,000, and 27,000 of which  were the contributions of 73 recognized TSMC Prolific  Inventors. Meanwhile, TSMC encourages employees to  file their inventions for patent applications. In 2020, 459  employees contributed for the first time to a total of 387  U.S. patents. TSMC implements four IP management initiatives  under an all-around patent management mechanism  to protect the Company's R&D results and technology  leadership. The initiatives include strategic patent  profiling, competitive mining and generating, portfolio  construction, and portfolio parading. TSMC's all-around patent management mechanism  involves a review mechanism, reward system, promotion  education, and talent training programs. The Company  has established a grading mechanism for patent  prosecutions that reviews invention disclosures,  manages entire patent application process, and expands  patent families. It maximizes existing resources to  generate a highly strategic patent portfolio that has  significant global influence. Meanwhile, TSMC employees  are encouraged to continuously file their inventions  through diversifying innovation-driven mechanisms.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society ▪6,900 global patent  applications, including over  3,500 U.S. patent applications    ▪Ranked 3 rd in most U.S. patent  published applications, setting   a new record   ▪Ranked 1 st in patent published  applications in Taiwan for five  consecutive years ▪Nearly 4,600 global patent  grants, including over 2,800   U.S. patents    ▪Ranked 6 th in patent grants in  the U.S. at a record-high, same  as the ranking in 2018 99% among the Top 10 U.S.   patent holders In 2020, the annual TSMC Patent Campaign successfully  attracted nearly 1,400 entries of inventions, and about  3,000 employees joined the Online Quiz on patent  knowledge. Meanwhile, the cross-function Leading  Technology Invention Forum held eight forums to  discuss six emerging technologies and received more  than 700 inventions. TSMC also proactively maintains close ties with both  domestic and international patent offices through  technical exchanges, assisting patent examiners in  better understanding the technical content of TSMC,  and consequently accelerating the patent examination  process in order to obtain high-quality patent protection.  In 2020, TSMC was invited to share the Company's  experiences in IP management in four industry- government-academia IP seminars, contributing to the  widespread of IP education and talent cultivation, and  facilitating an upgrade in IP protection. Meanwhile, TSMC  also shares practical experiences and insightful advice  on patent mechanisms and reviews efficiency to help  build a comprehensive IP protection mechanism. TSMC's stable core business is the foundation in fulfilling  its corporate social responsibility. As TSMC's most  important intellectual property, trade secrets are not  only vital to TSMC's competitiveness, but also the driving  force behind its sustainable innovation. Therefore, TSMC  built up the Trade Secret Registration and Management  System to record and track trade secrets that contribute to the Company's technology leadership, manufacturing  excellence, and customer trust. As of December 2020,  over 100,000 trade secrets have been registered and  recorded by more than 30,000 employees in the system. TSMC proactively and systematically manages its key  trade secrets as formatted records. Adhering to its  culture of innovation and attitude of pursuing excellence,  TSMC constantly improves its Trade Secret Registration  and Management System by actively applying artificial 2017 2019 2018 2020 Year > 8,800 > 10,000 > 12,000 intelligence technology to keep up with the updates  in technology trends and clusters. The Company also  established a talent pool to maximize the operational  efficiency and benefits of this Trade Secret Registration  and Management System for sustainable technology  innovation and strengthened overall competitiveness. TSMC is fully committed to continuously enhance trade  secret management to maintain an innovative culture. To  recognize employees for their outstanding contributions to the Company, TSMC presents the "Golden Trade  Secret Award" every year to registered trade secrets  that have the most significant impact on company  competitiveness. As of 2020, TSMC has presented  1,616 Golden Trade Secret Awards to more than 4,000  inventors. In 2020, TSMC Chairman Dr. Mark Liu conferred  special awards in appreciation of the talented inventors  who have earned numerous awards and honors  throughout the past six years. TSMC’s trade secret registration system  integrates with the human resources  system and automatically updates  employees' registration information  in its human resources file. This serves  to highlight employees' contributions  to TSMC’s technological innovations  and serve as an important indicator for  supervisors to consider for performance  evaluation and promotion As the world's leading semiconductor foundry service  provider, TSMC is the first to realize automated  manufacturing. The Company has applied AI to the big  data and machine learning platform for wafer fabrication  to create an intelligent manufacturing environment  featuring self-diagnosis and self-feedback capabilities. In  response to the increasingly diversified and growing need  for high-quality chips, TSMC initiated a comprehensive  digital transformation. Digitized fabs are launched to  transform the manufacturing process. With automated  data collection, system assistance and AI judgment,  process efficiency per batch is increased by 30% to 40%.  In accelerating intelligent manufacturing, TSMC has also  built an AI quality control system for wafer fabs to ensure  production quality, facilitate benchmarking among  different fabs, and strengthen technology transfer  capacity. In intelligent manufacturing, TSMC introduced  augmented reality (AR) and mixed reality (MR)  technologies to enable cross-fab collaboration remotely.  In 2020, iWorker, a remote work system was further  adopted to enhance remote access management and  internet traffic control. The system allows for over 2,000  employees to work from home simultaneously during  peak hours in one day, which is a timely solution to  limited access to regular workplaces as a result of the  COVID-19 pandemic. Since TSMC first introduced automated transport and  overhead hoist transfer (OHT) systems to 8-inch fabs in  2019 along with the demand forecasting and dispatch TSMC led the semiconductor industry by realizing automated  manufacturing. system, automated transport per day has exceeded  150,000 times as of December 2020. By providing a safe  and friendly work environment, the systems help more  than 3,000 employees increase work efficiency by 10 to  15%. The adoption effectively increases productivity and  reduces risks of ergonomic injuries resulting from the  handling of heavy objects. Armed with intelligent precision manufacturing  technology, TSMC is expected to move towards  intelligent assistive manufacturing and switch to  fully automated intelligent manufacturing TSMC will  continue to inject innovation vitality into the global IC  industry and be a trusted, long-term partner with our  customers. ▪In response to the COVID-19 pandemic,  TSMC ramps up digital transformation,  using AR and MR technology to enable  cross-fab remote collaboration and  strengthen inter-fab technology transfer  capacity. TSMC's Open Innovation Platform® is a comprehensive  design technology infrastructure that continuously drives  innovation. It encompasses all critical IC implementation  areas to effectively reduce design barriers and improve  customers' first-time silicon success. Throughout the  collaboration with OIP partners, spanning among  five alliances of Electronic Design Automation (EDA),  Intellectual Property (IP), Cloud, Design Center Alliance  (DCA) and Value Chain Aggregator (VCA), TSMC actively synergizes and realizes innovative thinking, under the  common goal of shortening design cycle time, time-to- volume, time-to-market, and ultimately time-to-revenue. As OIP moves into its 13 th anniversary, TSMC has  been facilitating the collaboration & communication  annually with OIP alliance partners on the latest  process requirements, to infuse the most advanced  semiconductor technology know-hows into their EDA,  IP, Cloud products,  and design services. Thus, TSMC continues to expand its ecosystem solutions to be timely  available to customers so they can enhance Power,  Performance and Area (PPA) in their products. This  helps achieve co-optimization among TSMC process  technologies, OIP enablement solutions, and customer  product designs. By 2020, TSMC had provided customers  with more than 12,000 different technology files and  450 Process Design Kits (PDKs) via TSMC-Online TM from  0.5um to 3nm, as well as a portfolio of more than 35,000  IP titles from 0.35um to 3nm. Those deliverables support customers for quick & reliable design and delivery of  innovative products to fuel the incessant growth of  global technology development. In August 2020, TSMC held its online Technology  Symposium and OIP Ecosystem Forum for the first time  to maintain an important and close connection with  worldwide customers and ecosystem partners during  the COVID-19 pandemic. During the annual events, a complete set of design  solutions were unveiled jointly with OIP alliance partners,  as a result of tight partnership, to address the market  demands for application-specific platforms of Mobile,  High Performance Computing (HPC), Automotive, and IoT  in the aspects as shown in the graph on the right. TSMC was recognized by IEEE, the world's largest  professional association dedicated to advancing  technology, with the 2021 Corporate Innovation Award  in December 2020 to highlight its leadership in foundry  technologies along with its Open Innovation Platform®,  which have enabled many revolutionary products in  5G mobile and energy-efficient, high-performance  computing that have brought fundamental changes to  the way we live and work.  "The IEEE extends its congratulations to TSMC for For the recognition of the contributions & outcomes  that were delivered by OIP alliance partners from the  collaborative activities, TSMC announced the 2020 OIP  Partner of the Year Awards for Excellence in Accelerating  Silicon Innovation. receiving the 2021 Corporate Innovation Award.  TSMC's achievements in both developing 7nm  technology, and enabling the innovations of IC  designers everywhere, have placed it among a  select group of organizations that have made lasting  contributions to the field of engineering, and to the  world." Toshio Fukuda, IEEE President and CEO ▪TSMC's 3DFabric TM is available to provide a family of advanced packaging  solutions for Mobile and HPC design applications   ▪Integrated Specialty Technology Platform is established to provide optimal  system-level solutions. Talent cultivation is among the five primary sustainable  development goals of TSMC. Through collaboration with  universities, TSMC is dedicated to enhancing domestic  talent quality and industry competitiveness through STEM  education. In addition to offering consistent resources,  TSMC initiates university programs under three main  themes: research collaboration, talent cultivation, and  career exploration for students. In 2020, TSMC founded the  TSMC Scholarship for Ph.D. Students and expanded the  scope of semiconductor and IC layout design courses in  the curriculum. The Company also hosted events like the  TSMC X Microsoft Careerhack to continuously invigorate  the innovative momentum in the industry. 53 Note: Learn more about the Internship Program in Talent Attraction and Retention- Talent Recruitment in this report. ▪Internship Program    ▪Research Assistantship    ▪TSMC Ph.D. Scholarship TSMC has established research centers in collaboration  with top-ranked universities in Taiwan and dedicated  research funds to encourage university professors  to conduct groundbreaking semiconductor research  projects. As the research centers strive to develop  leading-edge technologies in semiconductor devices,  material science, manufacturing process, and IC design,  they are also training talents in semiconductor research.  In 2020, more than 215 professors and 2,800 outstanding  students in electronic engineering, physics, material  science, chemistry, chemical engineering, and mechanical  engineering joined TSMC's university research centers.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society TSMC works with universities in Taiwan and overseas   to promote joint development projects. A variety  of innovative research topics cover technologies in  transistors, conductors, materials, simulation, and  design technology. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with 89  professors in 25 universities on 86 industry-academia joint  development projects. The annual research funds exceed  NT$338 million, and over 157 U.S. patent applications  were filed. Note: The maximum grant amount given to an undergraduate department is 100 thousand, 120 thousand to a graduate program, and 360 thousand to a  Ph.D. program. Grants were given to 86 undergraduate students, 55 graduate students, and 45 Ph.D. students in 2020.  University Research Center & Industry-Academia Joint Development Project NT$17.88 million Nearly NT$17.88 million  awarded in 2020 to 186  students Note TSMC Ph.D. Scholarship To facilitate the quality and R&D capabilities of key talents  in Taiwan's semiconductor industry, TSMC launched a  new Ph.D. scholarship in 2020, offering Ph.D. students  NT$500,000 in grants per year to a maximum of five  years, NT$2.5 million in total. The scholarship program  also invites senior TSMC managers to be mentors in  collaboration with university professors. By offering  industry-academia research resources, outstanding  students are encouraged to pursue Ph.D. degrees in  studies pertinent to the semiconductor industry. A total of  22 students received the scholarship in 2020.   "I am honored to have received the recognition "Receiving TSMC's Ph.D. Scholarship is a huge   of TSMC's Ph.D. Scholarship and benefited from  meeting the experienced mentors. Every lesson  learned from the mentor gives me an in-depth  understanding of the industry. I really appreciate  TSMC for the resources and opportunity." encouragement for me. It's more than just a financial  relief to me. The mentoring program enables me to  more vividly envision my future research direction  and life goals." —Han-Fang Hsueh, Ph.D. Student,  Division of Electronic Materials,  Department of Materials Science and Engineering,  National Taiwan University  Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report —Sheng-Tsung Lai, Ph.D. Student,  Department of Electrical Engineering,  Yuan Ze University The complexity of IC design rises with the rapid  advancement of design applications in 5G, AI, and high- performance computing. In keeping up with Moore's Law  that drives the development of 5nm and more advanced  technologies, it is becoming increasingly challenging for  wafer manufacturing technologies to seamlessly cater  to customer's IC designs. To ensure the competitiveness  in power, performance, and area (PPA) of end products,  TSMC is leading the industry in the cultivation of top  IC design and layout talents well-versed in design &  technology co-optimization (DTCO). "TSMC's Advanced IC Design Program is very helpful  in eliminating the industry-academia gap. Especially  with TSMC instructors offering first-hand industrial  knowledge, students get a more concrete sense of  the industry's demand and the most up-to-date  advanced process technologies. The program also  helps students better identify their future goals and  career plans." 6 hours Six hours per school 800 students The complete program is to be  launched in 2021. An estimate of  800 students will join the program.  150 students A total of 150 students in 2020 More universities are next  in line to join the program. In 2020, the pre-courses of TSMC Advanced IC Design  Program was first launched in National Tsing Hua  University as an extended program based on the TSMC- NTUT IC Layout and Design Course that has been  running for six years. A team of TSMC professionals  carefully design course materials with a goal to expand  the original IC layout courses into a comprehensive IC  design program. In the courses, students learn about  how TSMC maintains its technology leadership while  shorting customers' time-to-market with DTCO design  solutions, including electronic design automation (EDA)  tool certification and design flow enablement for each  new process technology. In December 2020, the pre- courses was launched at National Tsing Hua University,  National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, and National  Taiwan University of Science of Technology. The official launch of the TSMC Advanced IC Design  Program will take place in the first semester of 2021.  TSMC has also planned differentiated compensation  packages as an incentive for students who finish the  program to join the industry upon graduation. TSMC  endeavors to continuously incubate semiconductor Program is invigorating. It not only deepens my  understanding of TSMC but also gives me a clear view  of practical IC design flow in advanced technologies.  It has intrigued me to further join the semiconductor  industry and thrive." talents on campus and contribute to the growth of a  domestic talent pool for semiconductor and IC design. Committed to the cultivation of semiconductor talents,  TSMC helped professors and students of 16 universities  around the world in turning IC design into actual chips  and verifying their designs in application through the  TSMC University Shuttle Program in 2020. The free-of- charge support also gives students a chance to access  TSMC's industry-leading manufacturing process.  While over 70% of the schools involved in TSMC University  Shuttle Program switched to teaching remotely in the  wake of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the program  has not been jeopardized by the pandemic and distance.  The number of publications made through the TSMC  Shuttle Program of the year reached 93 in the year. In  addition, the program has proven that student research  is more than just innovative ideas but highly feasible  designs that can become high-yield chips with the help  of TSMC. Moreover, ten papers of the total publications  were elected into the International Solid-State Circuits  Conference (ISSCC), a prestigious conference known as  the "Olympics of IC design." In addition to 5G, wireless communications, memory  application, Artificial Intelligence, wearable devices,  security applications, and biotechnology, the research  fields for the program in 2020 also covered global  sustainability trends like low-energy-consumption  technologies. Researches on energy efficiency,  including UCLA's radio frequency research, Stanford  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society University's biomedical research, UC Berkeley's wireless  communications research, University of Michigan's  pulse-injection crystal oscillator design, National Tsing  Hua University's research on memory, and many applied  research of National University of Singapore, are a strong  indication that contemporary research is no longer  focused on technological feasibility only. Power-saving  features and durability which are the key factors in  sustainable commercialization were also covered by the  research. "We have been working with the TSMC University "Thanks to the TSMC University Shuttle Program, the  Shuttle Program for the past years in the rapidly  changing, wide range of memory applications. In  addition to having cultivated numerous students  of excellence dedicated to memory research, we  regularly share our research findings at globally  renowned conferences and journals which are met  with acclamation across the industry, academia, and  research institutions." innovations we've worked tirelessly on were finally  realized. Also, the early exposure to TSMC's industry- leading technologies gave me a competitive edge  over my peers during job hunting." Win-San Khwa, Department of Electrical Engineering,  National Tsing Hua University, a former participant of the  TSMC University Shuttle Program   (Now a Corporate Research engineer at TSMC) Marvin M.F. Chang, Distinguished Professor at the  Department of Electrical Engineering,  National Tsing Hua University 2020 University Program Manufacturing  Technology and Field of Research Note: Cooperative partners are sequenced in alphabetical order. 5G High Speed Ethernet Technologies   Wireless Communication Automotive Drones   AI Wearable Devices Memory Applications Security Applications TSMC continues to expand R&D activities to secure  its leadership in semiconductor technologies. As the  development of TSMC's advanced manufacturing  technology is moving forward at full speed while  also maintaining the protection of TSMC proprietary  information, TSMC launches the University Shuttle  Program to share its process technologies with  university professors and students for research.  The program actively bridges the gap between  academia and the industry.    "Through VDE, the first N16 FinFET University Shuttle Program chip tapeout was achieved.  Stanford University and TSMC have created  an innovative model for industry-academia  collaboration that amplifies top research results  by integrating advanced industrial process  technology. It inspires more innovation to  become a reality in the semiconductor industry. " with the Virtual Design Environment in the  cloud is simply an unprecedented combination.  Students get to realize their innovative ideas  using industry-leading advanced process  technology. It is an incentive to attract more  talents to join the semiconductor industry. " Philip Wong, Chief Scientist at TSMC Mau-Chung Frank Chang,  Distinguished Professor at UCLA In 2020, TSMC expanded the architecture of Virtual  Design Environment (VDE) in the cloud that was originally  intended only for customers. After eliminating the  concerns in information security, universities now can  access TSMC advanced technology process database  via VDE remotely to support research and teaching on  IC design. This innovative cloud-based solution has  greatly helped universities to take a stride directly into  N16 FinFET technology for the first time, by two to three  generations ahead of previously applicable process  technologies in 40nm and 28nm. To amplify the impact of TSMC's University Shuttle  Program, TSMC offered N16 FinFET technology to  universities in 2020, starting from the long-term industry- academia collaboration with Stanford University in the  United States. A research team led by Dr. Mark Horowitz  of Stanford's Electrical Engineering Department was  the first to adopt the Virtual Design Environment (VDE)  for the research on AI accelerator chips for deep neural  network (DNN) in N16 FinFET technology. In December  of the same year, the research team transmitted the  IC layout design through VDE to TSMC and completed  tapeout. Through TSMC's University Shuttle Program,  the IC design was realized in actual silicon. This is the  first N16 FinFET chip created by academia through TSMC  University Shuttle Program and it advanced AI research  in a big way. Meanwhile, another long-time partner, the UCLA research  team has also started research on RF circuits based on  N16 FinFET process technology via TSMC VDE that will be  under the guidance of distinguished professor Dr. Mau- Chung Frank Chang. ▪TSMC launched VDE  to enable customers  to conduct IC design  in the Cloud for the  first time. ▪The optimization of VDE architecture was  completed catering to campus research  applications.   ▪Stanford University's first N16 FinFET IC design  turned into reality.   ▪UCLA research on RF circuit was underway. Note 1: Major suppliers are those that meet at least one of the following conditions: 1. accounted for 85% of purchasing expenses; 2. single-source supplier; 3. ongoing orders in each quarter. Note 2: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, fewer suppliers were involved with the award. The suppliers not engaged with the award shared experiences remotely. ▪Increased the productivity of each visual  inspection worker that is responsible for back- end packages by 5.5% ▪Complete reliability qualification for advanced  process technologies, specialty process  technologies, and wafer-level package process  in the design and development stage based  on the Company's technology roadmap. Note 3: Reduction of NMP usage is limited to sites in Taiwan. Since the substitute chemicals affect the product yield in several sites, formula  testing and adjustments were necessary. TSMC subsidiaries will proceed with chemical substitution in 2021. TSMC strives to provide global customers with outstanding  semiconductor foundry services. To continuously reduce  product defect, while improving process control and the  timely detection of abnormalities to avoid quality incidents  that may affect our clients, the Quality and Reliability  Organization works alongside other divisions to refine  the quality management system. In 2020, TSMC precisely  defined each process's identification for various packaging  technologies to ensure quality control is implemented  correctly at each stage. TSMC also synchronized the  technology identification system with the customer-facing  business units to enhance the coherence and accuracy of  the flow from ordering to the production lines. In terms  of system management, TSMC set up quality control  procedures with clients (system providers) to ensure  product quality. Note 1: Leverage machine learning to analyze the correlation between raw materials and TSMC process control parameters; build the highly automated Advanced  Materials Analytic Center (AMAC) to enhance the raw material detectability. Note 2: Optimize the naming rules  for different packaging technologies to enhance the raw material detectability. Note 3: Build related quality control procedures to have better cooperation with the system-level customers to ensure product quality. analysis capabilities, which are the basis for continuously  optimizing processes. Quality is the sound support for  TSMC's technological advancement. In 2020, TSMC set up  the highly automated Advanced Materials Analytic Center  (AMAC), which adopts machine learning in analyzing the  relevance between raw materials and process parameters  to strengthen quality control of incoming materials. Devoted to cultivating the next generation of quality  management talents, TSMC continues to invest in the  Industry-Academia Joint Development Project. As of 2020,  the Quality and Reliability Organization has completed 16  research projects with five universities, covering subjects  of materials, process, and chip designs. A portion of  research results has been introduced to the development  of TSMC advanced processes. Meanwhile, TSMC has also  donated premium analytics and measurement equipment  to universities to elevate the quality analysis capabilities  of academic institutions and strengthen the synergy of  industry-academia collaborations. Quality is the cornerstone of sustainable development  for TSMC. To ensure product quality and customer  satisfaction, TSMC strives to improve the quality system  and methodology. In 2020, the Quality and Reliability  Organization held company-wide conferences such as  the Total Quality Excellence and Innovation Conference  (TQE), training programs, and quality improvement  projects on experiment design, statistical process control,  measurement technologies, machine learning, and  quality auditing. These programs aim to deepen TSMC  employees' problem-solving capabilities.  TSMC has held TQE for 28 years, which is a rewarding  mechanism of public recognition. In 2020, a knowledge  sharing platform for outstanding projects had been  created as a new approach of TQE. Organizations and  divisions were encouraged to learn from one another,  sparking innovation in quality improvement. In 2020, TSMC  employees submitted more than 10,000 improvement  projects, generating more than NT$15 billion in value.  Notably, more than 240 projects recognized by the TQE  are now published on the platform. As of December 2020,  the posts have earned more than 300,000 clicks. Moreover, TSMC puts up posters to promote quality  in all sites, strengthening the commitment to quality  among TSMC employees. In 2020, more than 99% of our  employees stated that the posters and sharing of the  outstanding projects are beneficial to raising awareness  towards quality. TSMC established a new theme - STOP & FIX - in 2019 to  encourage our employees to take the initiative to prevent  potential quality abnormality or outdated operation  standards. In 2019, the category received 5,500 cases. By 2020,  a total of over 6,500 cases were submitted, generating more  than NT$4.4 billion in value due to the improvement projects. Over NT$10.9 million   in cash prize Selection by Factory Committee of the TQE 38.4 million per  year (NT$) 30 million per  year (NT$) TSMC is entirely devoted to improving quality. By participating  in the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award Competition,  TSMC exchanges practical knowledge on quality  improvement with peers from other industries and facilitates  the advancement of all local industries. TSMC also encourages  employees to observe and learn from the experiences of  other sectors, which sparks innovation and problem-solving  among the employees. In 2020, TSMC received five Golden  Awards, one Silver Award, and one Best Innovation Award in  the Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award Competition.  To facilitate the supply chain's sustainability, TSMC also  encourages suppliers to participate in the Taiwan Continuous  Improvement Award Competition. In 2019, 100% of the local  major raw materials suppliers participated; in 2020, TSMC  first expanded the scope to back-end packaging materials  suppliers, 46% of whom participated. In 2021, TSMC will  continue to improve participation and quality, aiming to  achieve 50% of participation and 20% of advancement to the  finals. In 2020, TSMC suppliers received four Golden Awards,  five Silver Awards, and five Bronze Awards. To highlight such  achievements in quality improvement, TSMC published the  supplier award list on the official website.  In 2020, while complying with COVID-19 regulations, TSMC's  Quality and Reliability Organization promptly adjusted  strategies and invited suppliers that did not participate  in the competition to observe as a form of benchmark  learning. TSMC’s quality experts also offered consultation  remotely, helping the suppliers pinpoint where to improve  and selected appropriate improvement measures for their  companies. 15.7% 97.9% 312 million per  year (NT$) 1.8 billion per  year (NT$) 806.72 million per  year (NT$) 300 million per  year (NT$) 4.8 billion per  year (NT$) In order to improve quality and efficiency, TSMC started  to utilize machine learning technology and method  in 2014, and successfully applied advanced spectrum  analysis to automated classification of wafer defects  so that differences among processes and equipment  were detected, immediately triggering improvements.  TSMC established a defect inspection and classification  Outgoing Visual Inspector Productivity for the system  for 12-inch wafers to refine the consistency of outgoing  inspection and strengthen TSMC's overall competitive  advantage. In 2020, the productivity of each 12-inch wafer  outgoing visual inspector increased to 5,423 pieces per  month. Furthermore, machine learning automation was  expanded to back-end packaging visual inspectors, whose  productivity was increased by 5.5%. characteristics monitoring system in 2020, fortifying the  inspection capability of the quality of incoming materials.  Meanwhile, to deepen supplier management, the Quality  and Reliability Organization worked with the Materials  Management Organization to recruit the material quality  improvement project team and increase key checkpoints  on production lines for raw materials quality check. The  project team also asked the suppliers to adopt Statistical  Process Control (SPC) to enhance upstream raw materials  analysis and monitor the consistency of processes and  the quality of upstream raw materials. TSMC requires  suppliers' factories to receive ISO 9001 certification and  ensure that process change management, assessment,  and quality auditing comply with international standards. To implement hazardous substance management on  raw materials, especially carcinogenic, mutagenic, and  reprotoxic (CMR) substances, in 2020, TSMC achieved  100% of inspection capabilities and incorporated  hazardous substance management regulations in Supplier  Sustainability Standard, training, auditing, and consultation.  TSMC asks major materials suppliers to secure qualifications  in hazardous substance management, complete testing  and analysis on certain carcinogenic substances, and  include such findings as mandatory items in the Certificate  of Analysis, voluntarily disclosing the quality check results  of incoming materials. Meanwhile, TSMC asks all materials  suppliers to inform TSMC of any supplies and materials  containing any CMR substances and disclose such  information on the Safety Data Sheet following Regulation  of Labelling and Hazard Communication of Hazardous  Chemicals. TSMC categorizes all materials with potential  risks and conducts random sampling tests. By sharing CMR  inspection technology, TSMC can elevate the monitoring  and control capabilities of hazardous substances across  the entire supply chain. In 2020, according to the audit  In 2020, Chairperson of the TCIA Northern Taiwan Steering Committee and Vice President of TSMC, Dr. Jun He (Fourth from the right), served as  the award presenter and encouraged the establishment of a responsible supply chain and inter-industry exchange. results of the Risk Management and Materials Management  Organization, failures regarding hazardous substance  management included insufficient labeling and categorized  storage, insufficient personal protective gear, and failure to  conduct regular product testing for hazardous substances.  Relevant suppliers  implemented corrective measures  according to TSMC's recommendations by December  2020. Meanwhile, in terms of recycling and reusing acidic  solutions, the Quality and Reliability Organization offers  a reliable quality verification and control method that  aids the Operations Organization to keep reducing the  percentage of impurities in acidic solutions. In 2021, TSMC plans to share the recycling and reuse technologies with  the chemicals suppliers, expanding the effort to achieve its  sustainable goals of balancing between product quality and  environmental protection.  In 2020, TSMC once again worked with the SEMI to hold  the second SEMICON in Taiwan to facilitate technological  exchanges and deepen the local supply chain's  sustainability and competitiveness. To fully track materials with potential risks, TSMC  built the highly automated Advanced Materials  Analytic Center (AMAC), creating an exclusive  database for Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, and  Reprotoxic (CMR) substances. Using three major  spectrometry technologies - inductively coupled  plasma optical emission spectrometry (GC-MS),  chromatography/time-of-flight/mass- TSMC scans  for carcinogenic substances listed in Group 1  (carcinogenic to humans) by International Agency  for Research on Cancer. In 2020, TSMC completed  the assessment and selection of technologies and  materials for 3nm process, conducted analysis  on 100% of the materials with potential risks, and  identified 178 CMR substances in the semiconductor  materials. TSMC significantly streamlined the  analytic process and reduced the time required  from seven days to twelve hours, elevating testing  efficiency by 93%. TSMC adheres to its commitment to hazardous  substance management. Following its chemicals  management procedure, TSMC actively sets up a  defense against CMR and hazardous substances.  Regarding the materials currently in use, once  the chemical laboratory finds CMR substances in  testing, the materials must be tested by an impartial  third party institution and adopt comprehensive  control measures. TSMC would require the business  units that use such materials to assess alternative  chemicals, aiming to substitute the material  completely. If 100% substitute is not immediately Acr32664152415744-583136.pdf   1   2021/8/19   11:45 AM possible, TSMC will continue to invest in developing  alternatives while providing adequate protective gear  for employees on-site and conducts regular sampling  tests on the operation environment complying  with Regulations of Monitoring Labor Operational  Environment to prevent risks of exposure for the  workers. Regarding new materials, the control and  monitoring are conducted through the TSMC Green  Procurement Survey. TSMC requires that suppliers  provide a certificate of analysis to prove that the  materials comply with regulations to safeguard TSMC  employees and the industry supply chain. TSMC's hazardous substance management is based  on the QC 080000 Hazardous Substance Management  System Requirement, aiming to avoid entirely or  minimize the use of hazardous substances that may  affect human health or pollute the environment.  TSMC is committed to fully comply with international  standards and the customers’requirements on hazardous  substances for all customer products. Require suppliers to provide documentation  proving that the raw materials comply with  hazardous substance regulations. TSMC  conducts random sampling tests to ensure  compliance with such raw materials Key Tasks 2020 Achievements In 2020, TSMC continued substituting all PFOA-related  (Perfluorooctanoic acid, PFOA) substances and  succeeded after multiple improvements and tests. European Union is planning to regulate the substance in  the future. Within TSMC, only a part of the photoresists  recent years, the international community have noticed  concerns for Perfluoroalkyl substances, PFASs, including  the  6-carbon Perfluorohexanoic acid, PFHxA. The  used by VisEra contains such substance. Anticipating  the regulatory tightening worldwide, TSMC has taken The Quality and Reliability Organization helps customers  introduce product reliability needs to product design  during the stage of technological development. In 2020,  TSMC's Quality and Reliability Organization collaborated  with its R&D team to focus on the advanced logic  manufacturing process, specialty process, advanced  packing technologies development, and quality  yield, and reliability meet the requirements. qualification to ensure that component features, product  the initiative to assess substitute chemicals with suppliers  in 2020.  Furthermore, TSMC uses N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone (NMP) in  several photoresist wet-stripping processes. To  reduce risks of exposure and pollution, TSMC started the  replacement project in 2016, avoided using 100% of the  NMP in 7nm and more advanced processes in introducing  and designing stage of photoresist wet stripping process,  and existing fabs continued to conduct replacement.  Since replacement requires changing equipment  hardware and process parameters, partial sites' product  yield was affected and had to undergo multiple formula  adjustments and testings. In 2020, TSMC continued to  work closely with several customers, assessing substitute  materials for more than 50 processes. Although TSMC  missed the target to replace 100% of NMP compared to  the base year of 2016, the Company is still working  towards goals of company-wide 95% reduction of NMP in  2021 and 100% NMP replacement and avoid using PFASs  of more than four carbons in all processes by 2030.  time defense system of semiconductor manufacturing  services, the application of innovative approaches, and  the establishment of quality culture among the suppliers,  TSMC did not encounter any significant re-calls in  2020. The Company also continued to pass third-party  certifications, meeting requirements of IATF 16949: 2016 of  the automotive industry and IECQ QC 080000: 2017 by the  International Electro-Technical Commission (IEC).  For the advanced logic process, the Quality and Reliability  Organization completed product quality and reliability  qualifications of EUV lithography 5nm Fin Field Effect  Transistor (FinFET), helping the world's first 5nm product  into mass production in 2020. For the specialty process,  TSMC completed reliability qualification for 22nm Ultra- low Leakage (ULL) embedded MRAM IP. Furthermore,  for high-performance mobile computing and high- performance ULL process platforms, TSMC successfully  passed the consumer-grade qualification and automotive  grade-1 qualification for 28nm Embedded Flash. For  advanced packaging, TSMC integrated the front-end wafer  process and back-end chip packaging to provide advanced  packaging solutions. This is the system integration  for wafer-grade processes. Also, TSMC completed  qualifications for the fifth-generation integrated Fan-Out  packaging (InFO), whose linewidth is more sophisticated,  and heterogeneously integrated larger-size CoWoS®  packaging technology and went into mass production  to meet the demands for mobile devices and high- performance computing products.   Thanks to the qualification of technologies, the real- ▪Customer satisfaction rating of 92.8%; seven  consecutive years with > 90% satisfaction Customer trust is TSMC's core value. We believe that  TSMC's competitiveness hinges on how competitive our  customers are and that our customers' success is also our  success. In order to provide customers with the highest  level of service, TSMC has established a devoted customer  service team, which is a dedicated coordination window  to provide timely assistance and creates the best customer  experience, from design support, mask making, and wafer  manufacturing to backend services. TSMC also commits  to protecting proprietary customer information to the  highest standard to develop a long-term partnership and  become a long-term and trusted partner that is critical to  their success. Customer feedback and opinions are important  foundations for advancing customer relationships. TSMC  learns about customer needs through irregular meetings,  quarterly reviews, and annual satisfaction surveys. The  channels are a way for customers to provide feedback  on the performance of business behavior, relationship,  technology, quality, yield, design support, manufacturing,  customer service, and further expectations for the future.  TSMC regularly reviews and analyzes customer feedback  to propose optimal solutions. By having a comprehensive  response process to customer needs, TSMC continues to  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society advance customer relations. In 2020, under the COVID-19  pandemic, TSMC held a total of 1,205 online meetings with  163 customers, 115 quarterly reviews with 31 customers,  and annual satisfaction surveys with nearly 200 customers.  Responding to customer expectations for convenient  access to technical files and higher response efficiency to  business needs, TSMC established a smart technical file  navigation system and further reviewed and simplified  project review, quotation, and contract signing processes  to increase response speed to customer's business needs.  The annual customer satisfaction rating in 2020 was Note: Figures for customer satisfaction ratings in 2020 are from TSMC fabs in Taiwan and subsidiaries. Annual Customer Satisfaction Quarterly Business Review (QBR) Customer Service Satisfaction 95.7% 72% 93.3% 71% 93.0% 92.8%; maintaining high ratings of above 90% for seven  consecutive years. Customers responded positively to  the new, streamlined business process in the customer  satisfaction survey. Satisfaction ratings from customer  service items evaluated quarterly also reached over  80%. In response to a rapidly changing market, TSMC is  working closely with customers to continuously satisfy  their needs with advanced technology, manufacturing  excellence, and high-quality services. 92.5% 81% 92.8% 84% Real-time interaction and information exchange as well  as comprehensive protection for proprietary customer  information are critical for TSMC to build customer trust.  For real-time interaction and information, customers  have a 24-7 access to important information on design,  engineering, and logistics through TSMC-Online TM. It also ▪Design Portal   ▪Reference Flow   ▪Technical Document allows customers to create customized reports according  to their management requirements to increase wafer  management efficiency. knowledge of order status. To serve as a customer's  "virtual fab", through TSMC-Online TM, customers can manage comprehensive product manufacturing  information on a real-time basis. TSMC offers transparent  and comprehensive services for wafer fabrication to  ensure that our customers achieve product success. With the continuous increase in the types of advanced  technologies, the design complexity is also constantly  increasing. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with OIP alliance  partners and cloud service providers to offer unlimited  and comprehensive information security protection to  customers. We also used cloud services to create a highly  accessible design environment to help customers  accelerate design to market and win business  opportunities. In 2020, in line with the technology roadmap, we  provided customers with more than 830 types of wafer  technologies and more than 70 types of advanced  packaging technologies. For protecting proprietary  customer information,, TSMC commits to ensuring the  interest of all customers and to designing protection  mechanisms that can satisfy customer needs. To help  customers accelerate product certification, TSMC  obtained ISO 15408 IT security certification for Fab 12B,  Fab 15B, and Fab 14A in 2020, achieving the highest  security standard for product safety and proprietary  customer information protection, and is now ready to  receive and fulfill orders for high-security products. Under the pandemic, customers are not able to  take international business trips. As a result, TSMC Note: 2020 index includes Taiwan Facilities and Subsidiaries. is complying with security standards for proprietary  information to build remote sharing platforms for  different information security levels. TSMC has  successfully completed 15 remote audits to support  customer's product launching on schedule and win  customer trust. TSMC strongly believes that continuous innovation,  highest-quality products and services are the key  factors to maintain customer satisfaction. As a trusted  technology and capacity provider in the global logic IC  industry, TSMC will continue to be service-oriented and  bring maximum benefits to our customers so that we  become a long-term important partner that customers  can trust and rely on for success. navigation system to help customers access  required technical files for new product designs  faster. To ensure the system is robust at the time of  launching, the Customer Service Organization and  Business Development Organization have referred  to user feedbacks and access how technical files With an increasing number of technology types,  TSMC-Online TM offers more than 12,000 technical  files as of 2020. In the existing complex binary  indexed tree, customers often get lost or make  mistakes along the pathway. As the technology  grows more complex and file sizes increase, it takes  a longer time to download documents. In 2020, TSMC's Customer Service Organization,  Business Development Organization, and Corporate  IT Organization worked together to revamp TSMC- Online TM data structure and launch a smart file open for cloud download services under the  premise of information security. are used and categorized from the customer's  perspective. We use a 2D matrix table to replace the  existing  binary indexed tree and strengthen filter  and search functions. With support from the  Corporate IT Organization, TSMC-Online TM is also effectively reduce the time that customers search for  a file map that helps them find any files easily; at the  same time, cloud services will also significantly  file navigation system is launched in stages beginning  technical files by 70% and increase the download  speed by three to ten times. file navigation system, customers will be shown  increase technical files download speed. The smart  in March 2021. We predict that the system will 2020 total managed capacity reached  over 12.4M 12-inch wafer equivalents >12.4M A Responsible Purchaser As the world's largest dedicated IC foundry, we have made it our mission to purchase  responsibly. We have the power to make a difference and we are doing so by asking our  suppliers to make advancements in the following aspects: technology, quality, delivery,  environmental protection, human rights, safety, and health. Our goal is to build a green  and sustainable semiconductor supply chain. Supplier Sustainability Management P.73 Note 1: Tier 1 suppliers: Suppliers trading directly with TSMC with more than three orders per year, with order amount exceeding NT$5 million.  In 2020, 1,144 suppliers met the criteria. Since the suppliers signing every year were relatively consistent, the frequency was adjusted  from every year to every three years. Note 2: Critical suppliers: Suppliers accounting for the top 85% of purchasing expenses or of a single-source purchase, with indicators such as  procurement amount, product supply criticality, and business relation with TSMC. ▪ Continue to require critical suppliers to receive  third-party audits by RBA-certified auditing  institutions. The target is for 60 critical  suppliers to complete third-party audits Note 3: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, TSMC lowered the target number of suppliers for on-site audits in  2020 to minimize contagion risk. Note 4: TSMC raised the 2020 target from 125 to 145 as the multiple-source supply solution program achieved the 2030 Goal of 125 ahead of schedule. Note 5:  A total of 32 critical high-risk suppliers (formerly known as vendors with high-risk operations) were audited in 2019, of which 3 suppliers with safety and  health audit scores below 70 received consultation in 2020 and passed improvement requirements after evaluation. Improve the Sustainability of the Supply Chain Note 6: Referring to TSMC's main operation region of Taiwan. Note 7: Definition for high electricity consumption suppliers: Energy consumption at a single site exceeding 5 million kWh per year. Note 8: Referring to raw materials suppliers in the top 80% of local waste production. Calculation formula: A/(A+B)(%); A: waste reduced by the  factory in the underlying month (tons); B: total waste produced by the factory in the underlying month (tons). ▪Provide consultation on power reduction for  suppliers and reduce electricity consumption by  a cumulative total of 1.5 billion kWh - 60.5% local sourcing for indirect raw materials   - 50% local sourcing for spare parts ▪Reduce supplier electricity consumption by a  cumulative total of 320 million kWh   ▪Reduce waste production among major local  suppliers by 30.4% ▪Reduce supplier water consumption by a  cumulative total of 4.5 million tons Note 9: For spare parts, the annual local sourcing target was missed because the proportion of advanced  packaging increased and quality requirements have become stricter, and because TSMC had to  increase inventory levels due to COVID-19. Note 10: For backend equipment, since the proportion of advanced packaging has increased and both  quality requirements and technical specifications have become stricter, TSMC has also increased the  procurement volume of domestic and foreign suppliers, and the demand for foreign suppliers is still  strong; requirements; therefore, TSMC removed the target beginning in 2021. ▪Reduce supplier electricity consumption by a  cumulative total of 210 million kWh    ▪Waste production among major local suppliers  reduced by 29.4% ▪60% local sourcing for indirect raw materials    ▪44.8% local sourcing for spare parts      ▪31% local sourcing for backend equipment  Target: 60% Target: 50% Target: 36% Target: 29.1% As a global semiconductor industry leader, TSMC  aims to lead the improvement of the supply chain  and is committed to an environmentally and socially  responsible business model. TSMC focuses on two  policies, Sustainability Risk Management and Local  Procurement Optimization, as the core of our sustainable  supply chain development, driving the supply chain  towards a safe work environment, dignity of labor,  ethical business conduct, and environmental protection.  In 2020, TSMC worked closely with supplier partners  through four guiding principles: Code Compliance,  Risk Assessment, Audit Participation, and Continuous  Improvement, TSMC encourages supplier partners to  continue improving, commit to essential values, and take  the initiative to promote sustainable practices to their  upstream suppliers. To foster growth for supplier partners worldwide,  TSMC continues to expand the scope of our supply  chain management. TSMC upgraded the supply chain  business portal, Supply Online, to a global responsible  supply chain management platform, Supply Online 360,  which integrates supplier communication and increases  information accuracy and immediacy. The platform  went online on December 22, 2020. On the practical  level, the platform is built upon the structure of the four guiding principles and based on the TSMC Supplier Code  of Conduct. Through its new feature, the Sustainability  Management Module, the Supply Online 360 platform  enables digital follow-up for signature compliance with  the Code of Conduct, completion of the Sustainability Supply  Online  360 Suppliers comply with the TSMC  Supplier Code of Conduct and  extend the scope of management  to their upstream suppliers. ▪Tier 1 suppliers are required  to sign the Supplier Code of  Conduct. ▪Critical Suppliers are required  to ask their upstream suppliers,  contractors, and service providers  to commit and adhere to the  TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct. ▪Added Supplier Sustainability  Standards. Management Self-Assessment Questionnaire, and  progress in audit improvement. Using online data,  these new features can improve the efficiency of  efforts in the physical world. At the same time, TSMC  established the TSMC Supplier Sustainability Academy Suppliers evaluate their compliance  via Sustainability Self-Assessment  Questionnaire (SAQ) or are evaluated  by the TSMC Team. ▪Determining the level of Code compliance  of Tier 1 suppliers via Sustainability Self- Assessment Questionnaire to assess risks. ▪The TSMC Supplier Healthiness Assessment  Rectification Program (S.H.A.R.P.) team identifies  risks with indicators such as procurement  amount, product supply criticality, and business  relation with TSMC. ▪Monitor suppliers with serious violations,  tracking their continuous improvement to  reduce risks. ▪Suppliers are required to assess and mitigate  climate change risks. Critical suppliers receive third-party  audits by RBA-certified institutions  or on-site audits by the TSMC  S.H.A.R.P. Team.   ▪Critical suppliers are required  to receive third-party audits;  TSMC monitors audit results  and requires improvement.   ▪Establish Supply Chain  Sustainability Program, which  conducts on-site audits with  the S.H.A.R.P. methodology. and the Supply Chain Worker Grievance Channel on the  Supply Online 360 platform, taking tangible actions to  build a responsible supply chain and working closely  with suppliers to ensure the sustainability of the  semiconductor supply chain. ▪TSMC provides consultation or  assistance and arranges for follow- up inspections for improvement. ▪TSMC may reduce the trade  volume or terminate trade with  suppliers that fail to meet the  requirements. ▪Provide business operations  and sustainability training  programs free of charge, and  require suppliers to complete the  programs. Suppliers implement  improvement measures  according to the audit results and  receive relevant consultation. As a member of the Responsible Business Alliance, RBA,  TSMC sets its Supplier Code of Conduct according to  RBA's Code of Conduct. It requires suppliers to comply  with the Code of Conduct while encouraging them to  ask their upstream suppliers, contractors, and service  providers to approve and adopt the same code in  practices and management. New suppliers must sign  the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct to be eligible for  partnership. The new suppliers must undergo regular  risk assessments and audits in future partnerships  and continue to improve according to audit results. In 2020, TSMC further established the TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Standard, which specifies five major  categories for implementation, focuses on sustainable  conduct, and helps suppliers to take tangible actions for  sustainability. To deepen its understanding of the supply chain's  development and identify potential risks, TSMC adopted  a three-phase risk assessment process in 2020. By  classifying, categorizing, and identifying areas for improvement for suppliers, TSMC provides training  resources on the Supply Online 360 platform and  conducts on-site audits and consultations for critical  high-risk suppliers, ensuring effective risk control.  After the preliminary assessment for all suppliers, TSMC  requires Tier 1 Suppliers to conduct the SAQ to identify  sustainability risks. In 2020, Tier 1 Suppliers in Taiwan,  where TSMC is headquartered, completed 1,144 SAQs,  in which the five major categories of the TSMC Supplier  Code of Conduct were covered. The assessment results  show that, for the Labor category, suppliers often have For the preliminary assessment, examine the category and source of origin  of all supply products based on suppliers' business relations with TSMC to  analyze potential risks. Based on SAQ results and trading amount, TSMC categorizes Tier 1 suppliers  into critical/non-critical and different risk levels. TSMC then implements  supplier management according to the Supplier Risk Matrix and supplier  classification. For critical high-risk suppliers in the Supplier Risk Matrix, whose management  is more urgent, TSMC conducts on-site audits to identify the actual risk status  and provides consultation to reduce risks for the suppliers. no specified protocols to monitor the work environment  of their supply chain. For Safety and Health, suppliers  lack identification and risk planning for environmental  protection laws, operations in confined space, and  operations involving hazardous materials. For the Code  of Business Ethics, SAQ results show that 21% of the  suppliers do not have a business ethics management  system. In addition, TSMC requires critical suppliers  to follow up the sustainability management of their  upstream supply chains. Through Supply Online 360, it's  expected to conduct integrated management from Tier 1  suppliers in 2021. 2018 0 2020 2019 2021 Year At the same time, TSMC categorizes critical suppliers according  to indicators such as procurement amount, supplier product  criticality, and business relation with TSMC and determines risk  levels referring to SAQ results and priority violation records.  Using the two dimensions of criticality and risk levels, TSMC  establishes a Supplier Risk Matrix that classifies suppliers  annually. This classification is then used in determining specific  sustainability management actions to continuously enhance  supplier understanding of the five major categories defined  by the RBA. TSMC aims to improve supplier capabilities and  effectively track sustainability risks in the supply chain.  After identifying risks using the Supplier Risk Matrix,  TSMC implements management measures according to supplier classifications. In 2020, the TSMC S.H.A.R.P. Team  collaborated with third-party institutions certified by the  RBA and completed 24 on-site audits for critical high-risk  suppliers, assessed actual risks, and improve supplier  performance on sustainability. TSMC aims to work closely with suppliers in maintaining  consistent material supply and services, and ensure  mutual benefit by guiding suppliers to establish a safe work  environment that safeguards workers' health and limits  environmental impact. TSMC launched the TSMC Supplier  Sustainability Academy education platform on Supply  Online 360, and by compiling training courses from TSMC  operational and manufacturing practices,  TSMC provides Note1: Priority violations may present risks of production halt, loos of life, legal violations, or systematic failure. For example: lacking response mechanism for unexpected disruptions in production lines, environmental pollution, hiring child labor, or forced labor. Note 2: Major violations refer to significant differences between implementation and proper ESH procedures, such as daily operations not adhering to ESH procedures. Note 3: Minor violations refer to risks other than priority or major violations, such as incomplete training records or incomplete ESH procedures. 0.3% 10% TSMC S.H.A.R.P. Team and RBA-certified Third Party Institutions Factories of 24 Critical High-risk Suppliers 24 On-site Audits Not establishing an effective fire safety  management system 2. Fire safety equipment not compliant with  relevant regulations 3. Fire safety equipment lacking maintenance  Fire Safety System Not establishing multiple sources or safety  stock for raw materials or finished goods 2. Lacking comprehensive water and electricity  backup plans in response to climate change 3. Lacking comprehensive human resources  plans in response to unexpected  developments (e.g., COVID-19)  1. Lacking control over the quality of raw materials 2. Not implementing upstream supply chain risk  assessment or business continuity plan; not  conducting regular on-site and document audits  for upstream suppliers 3. Not planning or notifying TSMC in time when  making changes to the production process Required suppliers to assign personnel specifically for    fire safety management 1.2. Required suppliers to fully implement management of hot     work, flammable chemicals, and fire safety equipment,and     provide TSMC's relevant procedures for suppliers' reference 2. Required suppliers to improve fire safety equipment,  comply with regulations and provide relevant consultation 3. Shared checklist of fire equipment maintenance to  suppliers and held fire protection operation training Establish and verify multiple sources for raw materials  and finished goods, and have safety stock in place 2. Establish water and electricity backup plans and compile  the plans in advance when building new production lines 3. Establish comprehensive business continuity plans in  response to COVID-19 Control and manage the quality of raw materials to ensure  that materials comply with specifications and quality is  consistent 2. Assess risks of the upstream supply chain, conduct on-site  audits, and encourage compliance with TSMC standards 3. Enhance internal training on protocols relevant to  production process changes learning resources on labor rights, environmental protection,  workplace safety and health free of charge.  Such knowledge  on corporate management improves supplier capabilities  and even extends to upstream suppliers, enhancing the  sustainability of the overall supply chain.  TSMC values people above all else, and has further  established a public reporting channel for supplier employees  on Supply Online 360. This offers protection for supplier  employees, extends and deepens TSMC's management, and  builds a more inclusive workplace for the supply chain. As the global semiconductor industry continues  to grow, TSMC considers effective supply chain  management to be an important mission. TSMC cares  about the sustainability of the environment, society,  and the economy, aspiring to improve supply chain  management, and effect  behavioral change. TSMC  makes use of two policies to do so: 1: "Sustainability Risk  Management", which requires all suppliers to adhere  to the TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct , take actions to  improve labor rights, safety and health, environmental  protection, business ethics, and the efficiency of their management systems, and reduce disruption  risk for business operations. 2: "Local Procurement  Optimization" to continuously increase local sourcing,  actively provide consultation on improving core  capabilities, and set reduction targets for energy  consumption, water consumption, waste, and carbon  emissions to support the sustainable development  of the local supply chain. As a leading semiconductor  company, TSMC aims to use its influence in the industry  with these two policies as well as the four Action Plans  to promote progress towards sustainability. "Thanks to the auditing and coaching from  TSMC's team of experts, TPPC's concept of  disaster prevention has been extended to risk  management, system maintenance, and loss  prevention designs that enabled our disaster  prevention standards to reach the international  level for semiconductor fabs in a short period of  time and strengthened the company's overall  disaster prevention capability and the safety  awareness of employees." TSMC implements two of the action plans, Safeguard Labor Rights and Strengthen Supply Chain Resilience, through audits and consultations that urge suppliers to continuously improve, building a work environment that ensures the dignity of  workers and business ethics. In 2020, TSMC initiated the S.H.A.R.P. program, in which TSMC and suppliers work closely and effectively. Such comprehensive, collaborative efforts continue to reduce supply chain risks. Note 1: In 2020, supplier employees at TSMC factory sites occasionally still worked for seven consecutive days. TSMC has emphasized the importance of work hour management to suppliers. Note 2: Added violation penalties to the order form in 2018, and the practice continued in 2020. ▪ Initiate the S.H.A.R.P. program ▪ Tier 1 suppliers signed the statement at the  completion rate of 100%.   ▪ 24 Critical high-risk suppliers completed audits by  third-party RBA-certified institutions. ▪ No complaints reported during the underlying year. ▪ Upgrade management tools, enabling automatic  monthly reports that alert changes in supply and  ask suppliers to improve. ▪ Completed 100% of due diligence on conflict-free  minerals sourcing for the supply chain. ▪ Include violation penalty terms in orders. Suppliers  taking the orders implicitly agree to violation penalties.  In 2020, 1 supplier received a penalty for violations. Note2 ▪ United Integrated Services and Taiwan Puritic Corp  received TSMC Outstanding Supplier Awards. ▪ Develop 70 multi-source supply solutions. ▪ 21 suppliers participated this year, with a cumulative  total of 111 suppliers. ▪ Completed 24 S.H.A.R.P. audits. TSMC supports sourcing conflict-free raw materials as a  practice of humanitarianism and compliance with social  ethics. Therefore, TSMC has adopted a series of compliance  measures based on industry best practices, including the  due diligence framework by the Organization for Economic  Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Model Supply  Chain Policy for a Responsible Global Supply Chain of  Minerals from Conflict-affected and High-risk Areas. TSMC  is also a firm supporter of the Responsible Business Alliance Note: Data stated herein include Tier 1 Suppliers of TSMC facilities in  Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. (RBA) and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) , requiring  suppliers to source conflict-free raw materials according to  the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). TSMC  requires suppliers to comply with our responsible minerals  sourcing policy and sign a statement of conflict- free minerals  for products containing tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten.  Since 2018, TSMC has also disclosed to customers the source  smelters for cobalt used in TSMC products. By 2021, TSMC  plans to audit at least three suppliers that use tantalum, tin,  gold, and tungsten to strengthen disclosure from suppliers. S.H.A.R.P. For the latest TSMC disclosure documents, please visit the TSMC  website or the website of the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Supplier Healthiness Assessment  Rectification Program (S.H.A.R.P.) TSMC S.H.A.R.P. Team External Third-Party Institutions certified institutions, named the Supplier Healthiness  Assessment Rectification Program (S.H.A.R.P.). The  program audits five major categories, including Supply  Chain Risk, Quality and Reliability, Environmental  Protection, Safety and Health, Fire Safety System,  and Labor Ethics. Through on-site audits, face-to-face  communication, and other methods, TSMC continues  to develop benchmark behaviors in the five major  categories and improve the supply chain. Optimize Local Procurement      Two of the action plans, "Improve the Sustainability of the Supply Chain" and "Continue to Reduce Environmental Impact", are tangible actions TSMC has taken to optimize local procurement. TSMC offers consultation for suppliers to expand production capacity, advance production processes, and improve quality. At the same time, TSMC requires suppliers to guarantee environmental safety and health in the workplace, reduce environmental impact and its external cost, and mitigate the effects of  climate change and resource depletion. TSMC conducts Supplier Environmental Profit and Loss (EP&L) assessments to quantify environmental impact, guiding suppliers to set up targets of environmental protection to improve the local supply chain. ▪Explain TSMC Supplier Sustainability Standard, require  suppliers to establish management systems for Environment,  Safety and Health and fire protection, and urge senior  management of the suppliers to enhance supervision. ▪Present Excellent Supplier Award to Chang Chun Petrochemical  Company, setting an example for other suppliers   ▪60% for indirect raw materials , 44.8% for spare parts , 34% for  backend equipment     ▪Provide consultation on power reduction for suppliers and reduce  energy consumption by a total of 210 million kWh ▪Reduce waste production of supplier business units by 29.4% To enhance environment, safety and health and  loss prevention capabilities, TSMC divides its supply  chain environment, safety and health training into  two aspects: experience-sharing and on-site audits.  In 2020, for experience sharing, TSMC illustrated the  content and implementation guidelines for the Supplier  Sustainability Standard and shared case studies on  common violations in sustainability audits, such as  failure to wear personal protective equipment properly,  deficiency of the management procedures of fire  protection system impairment/ hot work operation, and  failure to turn on the valves of fire protection systems.  TSMC recommended measures for improvement and  shared tangible, actionable solutions to reduce energy and water consumption in the experience sharing forum.  The forum elevated the soft power of suppliers, and a  total of 347 people from 147 suppliers attended. For on- site audits and consultation, in 2020 the TSMC S.H.A.R.P.  team visited supplier companies to examine production  lines, evaluate supplier fire protection software and  hardware, and offered suggestions for improvement. In 2020, TSMC continued to strengthen experience  sharing by inviting suppliers to the Facility services  Academy at Fab 15, offering effective training by detailing  the operation, maintenance, and testing procedures of  fire protection equipment on-site. In 2020, TSMC held  observations of emergency response drills in factories  for local raw materials suppliers for the fifth consecutive  year. A total of 21 suppliers observed the drills on-site,  with a cumulative total of 111 people attending. ▪New topic for consultation: RBA7.0    ▪Practices–Fire protection system operation training    ▪On-site checking suppliers'  improvement status    ▪Emergency response–Table-top simulations TSMC's production is primarily located in Taiwan. Our  procurement can be divided into six categories: equipment,  spare parts, raw materials, facility services, IT, and goods.  To build a more effective and competitive supply chain,  TSMC actively seeks to elevate local suppliers' advanced  manufacturing process capabilities and establish a  comprehensive local semiconductor supply chain. Besides promoting local sourcing in Taiwan, TSMC has  also set up independent procurement organizations  for TSMC subsidiaries, including TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and WaferTech. Such organizations are the  extension of the TSMC global supply chain, which  helps local suppliers to improve technological levels,  quality consistency, and reduce costs as well as carbon emissions.   Proactively improve the technology  levels and quality of critical equipment,  spare parts, and raw materials suppliers  to increase local sourcing 60% 60.5% 0.4% 9% Drawing on experience, TSMC requires and assists  suppliers to continuously improve performance on  sustainability. In 2020, suppliers reduced energy  consumption by 210 million kWh. In 2021, TSMC  will increase its efforts, requiring suppliers to set  power reduction targets in each factory's annual 0 20.5 environmental protection targets to push towards  the sustainability goal of reducing a cumulative total  of 320 million kWh. For local suppliers that produce  the most waste, in 2020, waste production per unit  decreased by 29.4%, surpassing the annual target of  29.1%. 26.2 28.5 29.4 30.4 In addition to energy consumption and waste reduction,  TSMC will expand its management scope to water and  carbon emission reduction in 2021, requiring suppliers  to implement measures to reduce water consumption,  set specific reduction targets, and regularly follow up  on the results. TSMC aims to reduce water consumption  by a cumulative total of 35 million tons by 2030. At the same time, TSMC also requires High Energy Consumption  Suppliers to undergo greenhouse gas emission  certification and receive ISO 14064 -1 Organization  Quantification and Reporting of Green House Gases  certification. The goal is to achieve a 100% completion  rate by 2030. By working closely with suppliers, TSMC aims  to mitigate climate change risks. Green manufacturing is the cornerstone of sustainable management at TSMC. We believe  that corporate growth and environment protection should not be mutually exclusive;  our goal is to become the global standard of eco-friendly corporations. To such ends, we  integrate green management into daily operations and strive to carry out climate change  and energy management, water management, waste management, and air pollution  control through introducing innovative green technologies. Climate Change and Energy Management P.89 Water Management P.103 Waste Management P.112 Air Pollution Control P.122 Note 1: As of 2020, GHG emissions include fluorinated GHG emissions; the indicator will be used to evaluate various practices in the future. Note 2: As of 2020, the unit for unit product indicators will be in "12-inch equivalent wafer". Note 3: Environmental externality refers to the potential impact of the environmental footprint derived from business activities on human well- being, and takes the environmental profit and loss as a comprehensive index. The internal EP&L module was completed for the Total ESH  Management digital system in 2020 and 19 key suppliers were included into EP&L evaluations to continue identifying ways to improve. Overseas  fabs were unable to complete product life cycle assessment because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the assessment will be completed in 2021 ▪Increase 5nm process technology energy  efficiency by 0.2 times in the second year of  mass production ▪Purchased 1,230 GWh of renewable energy,  Renewable Energy Certificates (REC), and  carbon credits, achieving 7.6% of TSMC's power  consumption; TSMC overseas sites used 100%  renewable energy ▪Energy efficiency of 10nm and 7nm process  technologies increased by 1.4 times in the fourth year  of mass production note6 Target: 10nm process technology energy efficiency  increase by 0.8 times in fourth year of mass production Target: 18% 7.5% (NT$12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer)  Target: 5% The year 2020 was an important milestone in TSMC's  fight against climate change. TSMC closely follows and  carries out a variety of climate action goals following the  Paris Agreement. The ESG Steering Committee, led by  Chairperson Dr. Mark Liu, evaluates TSMC climate change  guiding principles twice a year and ESG Committee  Chairperson Senior Vice President Lora Ho annually  reports to the Board of Directors on climate actions and  results of the year. In May 2020, TSMC signed the world's  largest corporate renewable power purchase agreement  (PPA); in July 2020, TSMC was officially approved by  RE100 as the first semiconductor company to be a  member of this global initiative for renewable energy,  and TSMC declared a sustainability goal of using 100%  renewable energy by 2050, driving the development  of green energy industry, and realizing a future for  sustainable environments. As advanced processes continue to evolve, IC processes  have become increasingly complex and now require  higher electricity consumption. In 2020, TSMC purchased  renewable energy, invested in the development of green  tools, and worked diligently to carry out all 460 energy- saving measures and introduce new energy-saving tool  models to strive towards better energy efficiency in all  technology nodes of processes. Facing the potential risks  brought by extreme climates and global warming, TSMC  focuses on regulatory compliance, energy and carbon  emissions reduction, and carbon asset management.  TSMC is also using the Task Force on Climate-related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework proposed by the  Financial Stability Board (FSB) to identify climate risks  and opportunities. Based on the results, measures and  goal management were established to effectively track  response progress and outcomes, thereby lowering the  financial impact of climate risks on business operations. Note 1: Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) is jointly established by the Carbon Disclosure Project, We Mean Business Coalition, UN Global Compact and World Wildlife Fund. The initiative provides companies with a clearly-defined path to                  reduce emissions in line with the Paris Agreement goals. TSMC pledged to set a science-based target in 2017; however, due to lack of guidance on the semiconductor manufacturing sector, TSMC was not able to get our target developed,                  validated and published within the 24-month period recommended by SBTi.  Note 2: Renamed TSMC Corporate Social Responsibility Policy as ESG Policy since 2021. Note 3: Renamed CSR Executive Committee as ESG Steering Committee since 2021. Established Carbon  Management  Platform Established  Energy-Saving and  Carbon Reduction  Committee Established Carbon  Trading Systems for  China Fabs 2. Established Internal  Pricing & Impact  Evaluation Launched Green  Machine Certification  Program Overseas Sites Started  Using 100% Renewable  Energy Registered with  Voluntary GHG  Emissions Reduction  Platform by the  Bureau of Industrial  Development Launched TSIA  Energy Conservation  Platform Global Offices  Used 100%  Renewable  Energy 2. Global Offices  Achieved Net  Zero GHG  Emission Resilience to climate disasters is an integral part  of corporate operations in an environment with  increasingly volatile climates. TSMC uses the RCP8.5  global warming scenario issued by the UN to identify  disaster factors introduced by extreme climates and  established Climate Risk Adaptive Standards. In 2020, TSMC was able to successfully defend against potential  impact from disasters and potential operating losses  from climate change to achieve the target of zero  production interruption. To uncover potential risks and opportunities, TSMC  follows the TCFD framework to evaluate climate change  risks and opportunities cross-functionally. In 2020,  TSMC hosted a Climate Change Risk and Opportunity  Workshop and invited related internal organizations  to engage in group discussions on "policies and  regulations", "market, technologies, and reputation",  and "physical risks". Net zero emissions trend, EIA requirements, uncertainty in new energy saving/carbon  emission reduction technologies, flood and drought  impact to supply chain, and  insurance premium  increasing for natural disaster, and other risk factors  were new introduced into the financial impact analysis  of climate change in 2020 as climate risks to account for  internal and external environmental changes; enhancing  corporate reputation was introduced as a new climate  opportunity. In 2020, to cope with climate change, TSMC also carried out actions  such as purchasing local  renewable energy, building the TSMC Water Reclamation  Plant in Tainan Science Industrial Park, planning and  building green buildings, implementing programs for  energy saving and carbon emissions reduction, and  water conservation, investing into energy-efficient  products, elevating building foundation, and more. For  more details, please see "Financial Impact Analysis of  Climate Change". Note 1: Carbon offset products are renewable energy certificates, carbon credits or other carbon neutral products. 92 ▪Signed renewable energy contracts of up to 1.3 GW in Taiwan TSMC has long been committed to green manufacturing  and aspires to be a world leader in low-carbon  manufacturing. The Company performs yearly reviews  of the overall effectiveness of carbon reduction based Note 1: Figures from Joint Steering Committee (JSTC) report of the World Semiconductor Council. Note 2: High Energy Consumption Suppliers are the suppliers that use >50 million kWh/ year in a single facility. ▪ Developed Nitrous Oxide reduction technologies and made  it a standard for new tools; became first in Taiwan to install  the technology in 100% of new process tools using N2O in Fab  18A and Fab 18B in new and existing fabs  and installed 1,684 POU abatement  equipment in 2020.   ▪ Replaced 84 existing POU abatement equipment to achieve  92% installation rate Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions (From Purchased Energy) Indirect GHG Emissions (Value Chain) on third-party-verified GHG inventory results. Because  F-GHG emissions and the indirect emission of GHGs  due to power consumption are the two main sources of  GHG emissions, TSMC has for many years, continued to  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 12.3  GWh ▪The Company leads the global semiconductor industry with  the largest LEED-certified building area and constructed two  more fabs, which received green building certification. In  total to date, 34 buildings have received LEED certifications  and 23 buildings received EEWH certifications Market Leader: Leads global industry peers All TSMC: Introduced in all TSMC facilities Significant: First and only in the semiconductor industry establish industry best practices for GHG reduction. In  2020, TSMC replaced and installed roughly 1,684 local  abatement facilities for fluorinated GHGs and nitrous  oxide; acquired two new green building certificates; and implemented energy-saving projects for process tools  machines while taking progressive steps to increase the  use of renewable energy to reduce the GHG emissions  per unit product. 0.0054 In 2020, TSMC continued to implement the benchmark   practices of optimizing the use of process greenhouse  gases, minimizing global warming potential (GWP),  maximizing the removal rate in exhaust, and  comprehensively adopted the best available technology.  By taking tangible actions, the Company has effectively  reduced 4.2 million metric tons of direct CO2e emissions 0.0050 0.0045 0.0043 0.0041 0.0141 unit product were reduced considerably by 68% in  2020, more than two times the target set by the World  Semiconductor Council. Indirect emissions (Scope 2),  caused by energy consumption, were also curbed as  a result of increased use of renewable energy; indirect  emissions (Scope 3) of upstream and downstream  value chains mainly involve raw material production  and energy-related activities. As such, TSMC has set  energy conservation and carbon reduction goals with its Note 3: Emission factor based on data released in 2020 by the Bureau of                Energy stating that 0.509 kg of CO2e/ kWh, where 1 kg of CO2e                equals 6,805 kJ Note 4: As of 2020, the unit for unit product indicators will be in "12-inch      equivalent wafer" 0.0140 0.0133 0.0138 0.0124 suppliers to work together toward creating a sustainable  supply chain.  As the world's largest provider of semiconductor  technologies and capacity, TSMC is deeply aware of our  responsibilities towards local and global environments. We  pay close attention to Science Based Targets (SBTs) in line  with the 2° C scenario and various climate actions such as  the RE100 initiative. Using renewable energy is the primary Materials Production  (ref. SimaPro model) Purchasing Energy (without  Scope1&2) (ref. EPA carbon  footprint database) Waste generated in  operations (ref. EPA carbon  footprint database) Upstream transportation  (ref. EPA carbon footprint  database) Employee commuting   (ref. EPA carbon footprint  database) Business travel   (ref. Boustead model) Total Downstream transportation (ref. EPA carbon footprint  database) way that companies are able to reduce carbon emissions, so  TSMC has to collaborate with external partners to develop  carbon reduction/carbon negative technologies and obtain  carbon credits for carbon offset to ensure TSMC is moving  towards the SBT targets and net zero emissions. In 2020,  TSMC was able to achieve 100% use of renewable energy in  global offices and also used carbon credits to offset carbon  emissions from natural gas used in the kitchen to achieve  net zero emissions, setting a milestone for TSMC. Note 1: GHG emissions include Scope 1 & 2; standardized baseline is the  values in 2020. Note 2: TSMC revised the base year for Science Based Targets from 2017 to 2020. 10,1x 0.88x 0.75x TSMC's manufacturing  is primarily based in Taiwan. In  2020, TSMC achieved major progress in the renewable  energy market: the Company became part of the  first group to engage in renewable energy wheeling  transactions. Unfortunately, our efforts have yet to  guarantee sufficient supply in European and U.S.  facilities. With our growing capacity, TSMC is unable  to suppress the growth of overall carbon emissions  despite implementing industry-leading standards for  energy conservation/carbon reduction and achieving  targets for unit product carbon reduction. TSMC will  continue striving towards SBTs and net zero emissions by  strengthening green innovation, purchasing renewable  energy, driving the development of regional green energy  industries, using carbon neutral raw materials, and  expanding external collaborations to develop carbon  credit projects. Every three years, TSMC updates or establishes product  life cycle assessments, water footprint assessments, and  carbon footprint assessments in Taiwan fabs and obtains  ISO 14040, ISO 14066, and ISO 14047 certifications.  Product life cycle assessment for overseas fabs was  expected to be completed in 2020 but third-party  certification organizations were unable to conduct site  audits due to COVID-19; product life cycle assessment for  overseas fabs will be delayed to 2021. In terms of reducing unit product environmental  footprint, TSMC uses an Environmental Profit and Loss  (EP&L) tool to convert environmental impact from  TSMC operations into external costs (also known as  environmental externalities). In 2020, TSMC completed  the EP&L module for the Total ESH Management digital  system, allowing us to systematically compile operation  data from various facilities in a timely manner as a  continuous improvement management tool. Analysis in  2020 revealed that Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions   are the primary source of TSMC's environmental  externalities, accounting for 96.6%. To mitigate external  costs brought on by TSMC operations, TSMC continues  to drive low-carbon manufacturing, improve energy  efficiency, increase the use of renewable energy, and  more. In 2020, unit product environmental externalities  was reduced by 7.5% from the previous year. TSMC also  applied EP&L to upstream raw material suppliers, and we  discovered that chemical raw materials manufacturing  suppliers accounted for 51% of the supply chain's  environmental externalities, which was primarily  particulate matters and GHG emissions. EP&L is now  the cornerstone for TSMC when formulating carbon  reduction strategies. In 2021, TSMC will be expanding  partnerships with suppliers to work together and reduce  external costs on society from GHG emissions and reach  the 2030 goal of reducing unit product environmental  externalities by 30%. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society In 2020, with full support from the Board and  management team, TSMC was able to purchase  more renewable energy and move towards carbon  neutrality. In July 2020, TSMC officially joined the  RE100, becoming the first semiconductor company in  the world to do so. We committed to 100% renewable energy in global operations and zero direct CO2  emissions from electricity consumption by 2050. sustainable actions. In 2020, TSMC received the first  RE100 Leadership Awards - Most Impactful Pioneer  from The Climate Group. TSMC vision is for corporate growth and the environment   to prosper together. Our sustainability goals for 2030  are 25% renewable energy consumption for all fabs  and 100% renewable energy consumption for non- fab facilities. After all overseas sites transition to using 0.8% 7.0% 9.2 8.8 100% renewable energy, we will also expand the ratio of  renewable energy consumption in local sites. The renewable energy development in Taiwan is in  the early stage and TSMC is working with the MOEA,  Bureau of Energy, Bureau of Standards, Metrology, and  Inspection, Taipower, and the Allied Association for  Science Park Industries to discuss and eliminate the  gap between regulation and real practice as well as   scheme out details for future wheeling transaction. By  communicating  closely with the government and with 9.8 7.6% support from renewable energy businesses, Taiwan  was able to reach its first renewable energy wheeling  milestone in May 2020. The Solar Plant in Chiayi County  generated and transmitted renewable energy to TSMC,  and a number of onshore wind farms transmitted to  TSMC fabs in Taiwan in the fourth quarter of 2020, an  sign that Taiwan's renewable energy sector is growing  stronger. As of the end of 2020, TSMC has signed power  purchase agreements to purchase 1.3 GW of renewable  energy, which will reduce 2.2 million metric tons of  carbon emissions each year, helping achieve 100% renewable energy used in global offices, and making  contribution to climate change mitigation.   TSMC hopes to drive the renewable energy sector and  related industries by purchasing renewable energy and  supporting related government policies. Starting in  2018, TSMC began to purchase renewable energy, RECs,  and carbon credits in countries with comprehensive  regulations and ample supply, aiming to completely  offset carbon dioxide emissions from the power used in  locations around the world including the United States, Canada, Europe, China, and Japan; 2020 marks the third  consecutive year that TSMC has achieved zero carbon  emission from power consumption in overseas sites. In addition to purchasing renewable energy, TSMC has also  installed solar panels in TSMC facilities to produce carbon- free renewable energy for our own fabs. In 2020, 416 kWp  of solar panel capacity was installed, and has already  provided 4.63 GWh, reducing carbon emissions by 2,356 2016 18.7 414 880 16.5 1,383,208 In 2020, TSMC continued to implement energy efficiency  programs for manufacturing processes and with the  goal of increasing energy efficiency by 100% after a  process technology has entered mass production for  metric tons (the equivalent of annual carbon absorbed by  200,000 trees); in 2021, an additional 227 kWp in capacity of  solar panels will be added, and this is expected to generate  up to 5.76 GWh of electricity.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society 16.5 572 Note 1:  Standardized baseline for energy efficiency is the values taken from the  first year of mass production of 10nm and 7nm process technologies. Note 2: The data covers TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  WaferTech, and VisEra. five years. By expanding innovative energy-saving  measures, installing smart energy-saving equipment,  and adding components for energy conservation, TSMC  was able to increase energy efficiency of 10nm and  7nm process technologies in the fourth year of mass  production by 1.4 times, reaching our long-term 2030  goal ahead of schedule; energy efficiency for the 16nm  and above process technologies has also improved  by 1.8 times. TSMC has an unwavering commitment to  continue improving energy efficiency in the face of more  complex, advanced process technologies in the future. 1 1.3 1.7 2.4 25.0 Note 1:  The data covers Taiwan Facilities, TSMC (China), WaferTech, and TSMC (Nanjing)  Note 2:  Diesel and natural gases are not used in manufacturing and is therefore not  counted in unit product energy consumption. Note3: The unit product indicator is calculated based on 12-inch wafer equivalent  starting from 2020. In 2020, TSMC consumed a total of 16,900 GWh in energy;  with electricity making up 95%, natural gas coming  second at 5%, and diesel with less than 0.1%. Electricity  is the main energy used to power TSMC' s manufacturing  equipment and fab systems. Natural gas is used in  exhaust treatment facilities to reduce the direct emission  of fluorinated greenhouse gases and volatile organic  compounds. Diesel is not used directly in production,  but to run emergency power generators and fire pumps  during emergencies, power outages, or during annual  maintenance. 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 Year 21.8 21.4 Unit: kWh/12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer 22.3 28.1 26.7 In 2020, TSMC's Energy-saving and Carbon Reduction  Committee worked to conserve more energy through  company-wide roll-outs of energy-saving measures. The  committee defined five major energy conservation teams  for different process technologies as part of their efforts to  conserve more energy from manufacturing equipment and  fab facilities. The five teams are the advanced processes R&D   team, 12-inch wafer fab team, advanced backend and 8-inch  wafer fab team, EUV (extreme ultraviolet lithography) team,  and facility team. In response to the growing number of tools used at TSMC,  the Intelligent Engineering Center launched the Green  Manufacturing Engineering Program in 2020 to reduce  equipment repair risks and increase energy efficiency. With  the program, the Intelligent Engineering Center integrates  energy conservation planning and operations for all  fabrication equipment across all fabs. Each month, the five  energy conservation teams meet and discuss new innovative  measures for rapid roll-out into other fabs and set standards  for new fabs as soon as possible. The New Generation  Equipment Energy Conservation Program, launched in  2018, reached new heights in 2020 with 139 energy-saving  measures tested and applied to 68 different types of 5 nm  and 3nm manufacturing tools, helping TSMC save 200 GWh  in energy consumption. In 2020, TSMC carried out 460 energy-saving measures  across 8 different categories and was able to conserve 500  GWh in energy consumption, the equivalent of 250,000  metric tons of carbon emissions. The energy savings  translated into NT$1.25 billion of actual financial savings  and external carbon costs reduced from lower carbon  emissions were around NT$380 million. 2016 2018 2020 2017 2019 2.0 4.8 6.2 7.2 7.4 1.0 8.8 9.2 8.6 0.1 Unit: 100 GWh < 0.1% 8% Note1: 1 cubic meter of natural gas=10.5 kWh of electricity; 1 kWh= 3,600 kilojoules. Note 2: Data included Taiwan Facilities, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra. Fab 12A/B, Fab 14B, Fab 15A, Fab 15B, and Fab 18A  saves 17.1 GWh each year by using lithium-ion batteries  for the uninterrupted power supply system The Energy Saving and Carbon Reduction Committee awarded  Energy Conservation Model Awards and Energy Conservation  Innovation Awards according to employees' success with energy  conservation targets and innovative ideas. Trophies were made from recycled TSMC copper to add a special  eco-friendly touch while encouraging energy innovation. Note: Carbon dioxide emission is 0.509 kg CO2e/kWh; 1 kWh=3,600 kilojoules. 10 Measures; 94 GWh Energy Saved; 47,800 Metric Tons CO2 Reduced Energy Savings ▪Smart, energy-saving cooling unit   ▪A.C. adjustments for energy conservation ▪Modified wet film for A.C. humidifier  Fabs: All fabs In addition to expanding energy-saving facilities and  equipment, TSMC is also reducing material consumption,  increasing climate resiliency, and including eco-friendly  designs by building certified green buildings. As of  2020, 34 fabs have received LEED gold international  certifications and 23 fabs received EEWH certifications.  TSMC also leads the global semiconductor industry  with the largest LEED-certified architectural area, and  is number one in Taiwan for the largest green building- certified areas and certified green fabs. In addition,  TSMC launched the "Plant a Tree Program" in 2020,  collaborating with government agencies to obtain land  for creating forests and offering the public a healthier,  better urban environment. 101 TSMC built certified green buildings. In 2020, although COVID-19 caused production and  business activities around the world to decelerate,  TSMC  continued to actively save energy and reduce carbon  emissions, hoping to serve as a benchmark for the  industry. In 2020, TSMC was once again recognized as  an Outstanding Manufacturer for Voluntary Greenhouse  Gases Emissions Reduction by the Bureau of Industrial  Development, and was rated as a leading enterprise  by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for carrying out  green manufacturing commitments.  TSMC has long worked to develop climate mitigation  and adaption measures, and we are happy to share our  insight and experiences with outside parties. The TSMC- led Taiwan Semiconductor Industry Association (TSIA)  Energy Committee regularly engages with 13 association  members to share energy-saving experiences and  management practices. In 2020, TSMC conserved 500  GWh in energy and helped association members save  a total of 300 GWh in energy as well. TSMC also helped  members obtain ISO 50001 certifications and was  successful with a 71% completion rate. GHG reductions  reached 82% in 2020, exceeding the association's goal. Note: Declared commitment to energy conservation and carbon reduction  at the High-Tech Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction  Symposium ; 50% ISO 50001 completion rate and 80% GHG  reduction rate in 2020; target for 2025 is 80% ISO 50001 completion  rate and 85% GHG reduction rate . Note: In 2020, Fab 15B Phase 7 and Fab 18A Phase 1 became newly certified. us further insight into the mechanism: EUV is  reflected, on average, more than 10 times through  a special transmission lens within the EUV  machine. Each reflection results in 30% energy  loss and so the machine preserves less than 2% of  the light source power. In order to increase energy Semiconductor technologies are constantly  evolving and Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) technology  is key to the successful evolution to  process  technologies below 5nm. Unfortunately, energy  consumption from EUV machines is more than  ten times that of deep ultraviolet (DUV) machines.  In order to ensure both process technology  advancement and environmental sustainability,  TSMC is searching for ways to conserve EUV  power consumption and was able to successfully  increase energy efficiency by 5% in 2020 through  big data analysis and improving mechanisms. EUV machines are the most advanced machines in  semiconductor lithography processes, and there  is incredibly high risk associated with product  quality when changing any processes. However,  TSMC decided to collaborate with suppliers for the  New Generation Equipment Energy Conservation  Program. Research into EUV machines gave  Case Study efficiency of EUV machines, TSMC turned to big data  to learn about how EUV light is produced, how energy  is consumed, and how it operates. We discovered that  the pulse created from EUV light and transmissions  lens is the main factor in energy consumption, and  immediately worked to develop mitigation measures.  In 2020, TSMC first amended equipment programming  to achieve optimal EUV light pulse power and  redesigned the structure of the transmission lens to  increase reflective rate by 3%. TSMC also analyzed  data from our carbon dioxide laser system magnifier  and realized that by replacing holding frequency with  fluctuation frequency, we would be able to increase the  magnifier's energy efficiency by 10%. Our three-pronged  approach successfully increased the energy efficiency of  EUV machines by 5% and the innovative approach has  now been applied to new 3nm EUV machines so that  we may do our part in conserving energy and reducing  carbon emissions.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society TSMC successfully increased energy efficiency by 5% in 2020 through big data analysis and improving mechanisms. Note 1: Replace city water with reclaimed domestic or industrial wastewater. Note 2: The scope of water pollution projects and figures include Taiwan  facilities and VisEra. Note 3: 2030 Goals raised from 30% to 50%. Note 4: Due to test production in new fabs, unit water consumption did not meet our target. TSMC continues to commit to the development of water  reclamation technologies. The TSMC Tainan Science Park Reclaimed Water Plant is expected to be operational by 2021. Note 5: Due to increased fab production, TMAH concentration levels in discharge failed to meet the target. TSMC is evaluating expansion of the  treatment system. ▪Reduced unit water consumption by 8.9%          (Base year: 2010)  Note4 ▪Discharged less than 6.3 ppm of  tetramethylammonium hydroxide(TMAH)  Note5 ▪Water pollution composite indicator reduction rate of 42.4%  Target: 10% In 2020, TSMC became the first to bring 5 nanometer  (5nm) process technologies to mass production. TSMC  increased clean water consumption as 5nm process  technology includes advanced wafer stacking and  reduced wire width, meaning that the smallest dust  particle could have an impact on yield. This further  demonstrates the importance of effectively using water  resources and flexibility in water resource management.  TSMC strives for comprehensive water cycle management  through the following three major strategies: managing  water resource risk, developing diverse water sources,  and developing preventive measures. 55.7   ten thousand  metric tons/day 97.4   ten thousand  metric tons/day 5.7 appx.10.3% ten thousand metric tons/day 8.2 appx. 8.5% In 2020, TSMC adopted the Water Risk Atlas from the World  Resources Institute (WRI) to evaluate water risk levels in  areas with TSMC facilities by using key indicators of water  supply, effluent water quality, and regulatory/reputation  risks. TSMC facilities in Taiwan and our affiliate VisEra were  both rated medium-to-low risk while Wafertech was rated  low risk. TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing ) were rated high  and medium-to-high risk as they face differences in water  quality in their regions and require refined water, thereby  increasing wafer unit water consumption. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Liyutan Reservoir Deji Reservoir 5.4 appx. 3.7% ten thousand metric tons/day The Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) sets the global standard for sustainable water management.  TSMC became  the first semiconductor company in the world to receive Platinum Certification when Fab 6 and Fab 14B were certified.  Other TSMC fabs are using the "smart copy" technique to earn AWS certifications as well.  In 2020, Fab 15A and Fab 15B broke records again by obtaining Platinum Certifications from AWS.  In 2021, TSMC will be focusing on certifications for  Hsinchu facilities including Fab 12A, Fab 12B, Fab 5, and Advanced Backend Fab 3. As a result of climate change, 2020 was the first year  without typhoons since 1964. Without typhoons, the  reservoir watershed experienced a sharp decline in  rainfall collection.  TSMC deployed a blueprint for water  stress management to monitor water levels in various  reservoirs and adopted a water balance chart to take  stock of water conservation measures. In May 2020,  when the drought monitoring signal changed from blue  to green (indicating fairly severe drought conditions), TSMC immediately established a Drought Emergency  Response Team to monitor water sources and water truck  capacities and reduce water consumption by 5%. Water  levels remained low until November 2020, during which  TSMC decided to further reduce water consumption by  7%. Smart water recycling management mechanisms  were activated to allocate reclaimed water to TSMC  facilities and increase water efficiency. Drought Emergency Response Team begins to  monitor water sources/water truck capacities and reduce water consumption by 5%. TSMC The four major water conservation measures at TSMC are  to "Reduce Facility System Water Consumption, Increase  Wastewater Recycling of Facilities , Improve Water  Production Rate of the System, and Decrease Water  Discharge Loss from the System ". These four measures  are integrated with the three water management  processes of "Water Supply Diversity, Water Efficiency  Management, and Wastewater Resource Recycling". TSMC  strives to uncover more opportunities to conserve water ▪Increased the water  production rate of RO  recycling systems (1.3%) ▪Reduced cooling  tower and sand filter  backwash water (0.3%) ▪Extend regeneration  and backwash cycle for  clean water & recycling  system (3.7%) million metric tons 1.927 (15.4%) 297,000 metric tons and has developed 38 distribution systems based on  the composition and concentration of wastewater from  fabrication for wastewater classification and resource  management. Equipment is then used to decompose  pollutants and increase water recycling. With 9 recycling  systems and 13 wastewater facilities, TSMC has been able  to develop 10 renewable materials as of 2020. Decrease Water Discharge  Loss from the System   ▪Recycled hydrofluoric  acid wastewater (6.5%) ▪Reclaimed water  produced from TMAH  system (23.9%) ▪Recycled  from MAU  Drain (15.3%) ▪Purified reclaimed  water into industrial  water (19.6%) Wafer unit water consumption continues to increase  due to stricter requirements for clean water from  advanced processes and optimized operations. TSMC is  implementing our four water conservation measures to  increase water sources and reduce water consumption,  but we continue to seek other opportunities to conserve water. In 2020, TSMC launched a backwash wastewater  recycling system and was able to conserve 297,000 metric  tons of water, further increasing water conservation  levels in 2020 to 1.927 million metric tons, and reducing  wafer unit water consumption to 128.4 (L/12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer). TSMC was able to achieve 87.4% 87.5% 86.7% 86.4% 94.3 103.4 129.0 133.6 173.0 86.1 87.5% an 8.9% reduction from the base year but was unable to  meet our annual target. In 2021, the TSMC Tainan Science  Park Reclaimed Water Plant will become operational and  it is expected to reduce TSMC’s demand for city water. In 2020, the wafer unit wastewater discharge was 86.0  (L/12-inch equivalent wafers mask layer), which was a 107.3 106.2 38.6 3.4 45.2 3.8 105.9 51.0 5.7 133.4 128.4 58.0 6.3 70.6 6.7 50 3.9% reduction from last year. This indicates that our four  water conservation measures are effective in reducing  pollutant concentration and increasing water recycling. 23.45 2.75 70.7 70.0 71.2 29.40 2.86 33.70 4.13 38.67 4.44 89.5 46.69 5.12 thousand metric tons of reclaimed water per day. The  water plant will help reduce city water consumption,  make strides toward water recirculation, and develop  diverse water sources. As a leading global semiconductor company, TSMC  began investing in water reclamation technologies  in 2015 by coordinating with government agencies to  develop domestic wastewater recycling processes that  meet water quality standards and establish industrial  wastewater recycling facilities.  In 2019, bidding for TSMC  Tainan Science Park Reclaimed Water Plant opened  successfully and in 2020, construction commenced and  wastewater supply network designs within the park  began. In 2021, we expect the water plant to supply ten Fab 18A biological treatment system. Note: Water supply schedule and volume for 2021 and thereafter are calculated from reclaimed water consumption contracts between TSMC and government departments agencies (Southern Taiwan Science Park Administration and Tainan City Government). As a leader in the global semiconductor industry, TSMC  is working on developing a variety of measures for  water pollution prevention to mitigate impact on the  environment caused by TSMC operations. Suspended  solids, ammonia nitrogen, and copper ion are key  pollutants that were reduced to legally required effluent  standards ahead of schedule in 2018 and 2019. In 2020,  Tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) concentration  was reduced to 6.3ppm but failed to achieve the 2020 ▪ Suspended Solids 29.4 ppm Achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule target despite a 20% reduction from the previous year.  TSMC is working to reduce TMAH concentration by  developing low-concentration TMAH recycling and anion  adsorption technologies. COD reduction is more difficult  to achieve because evolving fabrication processes have  increased demand for organic compounds. TSMC hopes  to develop biological treatment systems that can help  achieve 100ppm by 2025. ▪ Copper Ion  0.09 ppm   ▪ Ammonia Nitrogen  17.31 ppm  Achieved 2025 goals ahead of schedule For a comprehensive insight into the environmental  impact of effluent pollutants, TSMC has developed a water  pollutants. The indicator is capped by legal effluent  standards and serves as a key indicator in reducing  and preventing pollutant concentration in effluents. In  response to evolving fabrication processes and increased  demand for chemicals, TSMC will continue to develop its  reduction goals in 2030 from 30% to 50%.  In 2020, the  Water Pollution Composite Indicator was reduced by  42.4%, exceeding the 20% target of the year. pollution composite indicator based on eight major ▪Recycle low-concentration liquid waste   ▪Set up biological treatment system   ▪ TMAH 6.3 ppm    ▪ COD 194 ppm 44% Note: Data includes Taiwan Facilities. 38.8% 38.7% 36.8% 43.8% 42.4% Semiconductor manufacturing technology  in effluents. To improve water quality, TSMC has  organic compounds as well as increasing COD levels  designed a distribution system to collect advanced  organic wastewater (AOR) and monitor equipment  TSMC has been able to reduce COD concentration  by more than 90% through adjusting organic  Organic wastewater from semiconductors requires a  more complex biological treatment than regular  organic wastewater. TSMC invested labor and  developing a membrane bioreactor system  applicable to semiconductor manufacturing to  further reduce COD levels. organic wastewater. However, the system requires a  large area and the process faces problems that emit high-concentration organic compounds.  compound emission parameters on equipment. manufacturing. High-concentration organic wastewater  system and ensure the system can be placed within fabs.  Organic wastewater containing hydrofluoric acid will  undergo reverse osmosis to increase fluoride ion levels,  An automatic thin film pickling device is also designed so  that bacteria can adhere to the permeable membrane for  In 2020, Fab 18A successfully used a distribution tracking to We are also advancing our biological treatment of organic  achieve <100 ppm in COD emissions by 2025. wastewater from semiconductor fabrication contains  hydrofluoric acid. As such, TSMC is working to develop a  membrane bioreactor system applicable to semiconductor  sources are first identified and channeled into the  membrane bioreactor system to reduce the size of the calcium carbonate levels (water hardness) below 300 ppm.  better performance, reduced clogging, and water recycling. improve machinery emission parameters and reduce COD  emission concentration to 150 ppm with the help of  TSMC’s unique membrane bioreactor system. Fab 18A  accomplished a major milestone for new fabs and its  processes will become the design standard for future fabs.  wastewater to drive green manufacturing, and expect to  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Note1: The unit product indicator for outsourced unit waste treatment per wafer is calculated based on 12-inch  wafer equivalent starting in 2020. Accordingly, the goal was adjusted from 0.22 (kg/8-inch equivalent  wafer mask layer) to 0.50 (kg/12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer). Note2: See section on “Source Reduction” for reasons why targets were not achieved. Note3: TSMC will be building advanced manufacturing facilities in 2021. Considering the initial demand  for equipment cleaning and wafer testing in new facilities, the target set for outsourced unit waste    ▪Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer ≦   0.50 ▪In-house resource recycling rate ≧  22%   ▪In-house resource recycling rate 22% wafer ≦ 1.15 (kg/12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) Note4: TSMC requires waste treatment vendors to at least acquire ISO14001 or ISO45001 certifications as the basis for standardized  management. Waste treatment vendors include waste treatment and recycling vendors. Vendors exempted from online  reporting, government-owned enterprises, or public-to-private enterprises, are excluded from the aforementioned vendors. treatment per wafer in 2021 is higher than that of 2020. To achieve the ≦ 0.50 target for 2030, TSMC will launch programs  including raw material reduction, expanding in-house resources recycling equipment, building a zero waste manufacturing  center and electronic-grade material recycling trials. ▪Outsourced unit waste disposal per wafer 1.01 (kg/12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer) Target: ≦ 0.88 As a practitioner of green manufacturing, TSMC's  waste management strategies abide by the principle  of waste minimization, resource recycling, and reuse  maximization. In 2020, the waste recycling rate reached  95% for the sixth consecutive year. TSMC achieves source  optimization and minimization by adjusting raw materials  usage parameters at the source and technical solutions  for process technology. After raw materials are used in  manufacturing processes, onsite recycling is prioritized  so that resources are sufficiently reused instead of being  disposed of as waste right away. TSMC also promotes  source reduction throughout the supply chain to facilitate waste reduction upstream, and the reuse of wafer  cassettes at downstream packaging and testing facilities. TSMC's waste resource management makes use of  in- house resource recycling equipment and turns waste into  products. Furthermore, TSMC approved construction  plans for our first Zero-Waste Manufacturing Center in  2020. When waste treatment needs to be outsourced,  recycling and recovery are prioritized over incineration  and landfill to ensure optimal resource utilization. The  percentage of waste sent to landfills has been less than  1% for the past 11 years as of 2020. In addition to implementing a circular economy, TSMC  also takes full responsibility for the management of  waste clean-up, treatment, and recycled product flow.  Under the Waste Treatment Vendor Sustainability  Enhancement Project, 80% of waste treatment vendors  have acquired ISO14001 certification. At the same time,  the existing waste life cycle management procedure  is continuously being upgraded towards the more  systematic, automated, and smart Intelligent Waste  Management Procedure with Full Traceability. In 2020,  TSMC collaborated with the Environmental Protection  Administration (EPA) to establish the first Automated Waste Disposal Declaration Platform in the  industry. It provides a mechanism for real-time waste  declaration and clean-up monitoring launched along  with TSMC’s GPS Satellite Fleet System. In addition, the  Intelligent Management Plan for Proper Waste Treatment  was started to launch to fully replace manual inspection.  Systematic cloud-based tracking is used to trace  recycled product transport and flow to prevent illegal  waste disposal. Waste treatment vendors are encouraged  to keep pace with TSMC in achieving environmental  sustainability. Raw Materials for other industries like  optoelectronic semiconductor, chemical  industries, etc. Note1: Data includes Taiwan facilities. Note2: The data is compiled based on waste  disposal declaration data and the  processing capacity of in-house resource  recycling facilities. Note3: Subsidiaries will start recycle evaluation  plan to reduce landfill rate in 2021. 0.1 0.1 2,092 0.2 2,740 0.2 0.3 10,516 14,116 17,765 11.1 11.2 272,915 12.6 20,812 15.9 16.1 280,635 As complexity and production capacity increase in  advanced processes, TSMC’s raw material consumption  increases along with waste generation. To reduce  environmental impact, TSMC established a Waste  Management Task Force and the Unit Waste Production  Management System in a cross-organizational effort. The  self-imposed management mechanism is enhanced with  the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) management cycle to  commit to source reduction. In 2020, TSMC implemented  226 waste management improvement measures,  including process simplification, extending the life cycle  of chemicals and maintenance schedule, exploring new  chemical alternatives, and introducing high-temperature  manufacturing processes. A total of 37,858 metric tons  of waste were reduced as TSMC strives to lower material use and waste production from all dimensions.  New TSMC facilities began operations in 2020. Due to the  complexity of new process development, higher demand  for wafer cleanliness, and the need to continue adjusting  and optimizing operations system, the outsourced  unit waste treatment per wafer was 1.01 (kg 12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer). The in-house resource  recycling rate was 22%, which also missed the original  goal for the year. In the future, TSMC will continue to  implement measures such as reducing chemicals at the  source, expanding in-house resource recycling facilities,  building and launching the Zero-Waste Manufacturing  Centers, and reusing electronic-grade materials to meet  the 2030 goal of achieving 0.5 kg outsourced waste  treatment per wafer.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Dedicated to the implementation of a circular economy,  TSMC is no longer just a waste resources producer. To  strengthen control over product flow and reduce risks  derived from mishandling by outsourced vendors,  TSMC continues to implement the "Action Plan to Turn  Waste into High-Value Products", which includes the  development and introduction of resource recycling  technologies and equipment. Waste resources produced  in manufacturing processes are revitalized and remade  into products to be used within TSMC facilities or sold to  other industries. Began sales of  cobalt tubes Started selling self- produced recycled  products / cross-fab  recycling Achieved zero  waste or zero  purchasing goals Established our  first electronic- grade chemical  recycling test line Since 2015, TSMC has been actively implementing on-site  reuse of waste sulfuric acid, and has set up equipment  to recycle cobalt-containing and copper-containing  liquid wastes to reduce sulfuric acid consumption and  outsourced treatment of cobalt-containing and copper- containing liquid wastes. To increase the value of  materials recycled from copper-containing liquid waste,  TSMC worked with raw material suppliers on developing  purification procedures that remake pure recycled copper  tubes into electronic-grade copper anodes.  A cumulative  total of over 10 metric tons of electronic-grade copper  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society anodes have been reused in  TSMC manufacturing  processes as of 2020. In addition, TSMC has built the  Ammonium Sulfate  Waste  Crystallization System to  optimize operational procedures and efficiency. In  expanding in-house resource recycling equipment, TSMC  introduced the "Physical Regeneration Technique for  Backgrinding Wastewater" that turns silicon-containing  metric tons of waste and produced 120,000 metric tons of  products, creating more than NT$500 million of value in  resources circulation. liquid waste into industrial silicon cake, TSMC's fifth  recycled product. In 2020, TSMC recycled over 150,000 Note: Income value statistics cover Taiwan facilities. NEW Zero-Waste Manufacturing Center With the establishment of the Zero-Waste  Manufacturing Center, TSMC purifies waste  resources generated from manufacturing  processes into electronic-grade or  industrial-grade products. In 2020, TSMC approved construction plans for the  Zero-Waste Manufacturing Center in the Central Taiwan  Science Park. Construction is scheduled to complete  in 2023. At the same time, TSMC participated in  technology development and launched the electronic- grade chemicals recycling pilot line including IPA and  cyclopentanone and ammonia. The goal is to purify  IPA, cyclopentanone and ammonium sulfate waste into  reusable materials for TSMC processes and subsequently  reduce environmental impact through material  reclamation. Resource Recycling Equipment With the development and introduction  of resource recycling technology, TSMC  converts waste resources generated  from manufacturing processes into  industrial products. Ammonium Sulfate Waste Crystallization System 2.0 Significantly Increases Treatment Capacity by 400% In response to the advancement of manufacturing  processes and capacity, TSMC continues  to strengthen efforts towards achieving a  circular economy and effectively reducing the  environmental impact of increased waste. TSMC  collaborated with vendors throughout the supply  chain to assess and improve the  Ammonium  Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System. In 2020,  TSMC completed the development of Ammonium Fab 15A adopted the  Ammonium Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System 1.0. Completed the development of Ammonium  Sulfate Waste Crystallization System 2.0 to be  standardized in new facilities Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System 2.0. Heating  equipment is introduced to accelerate the heating cycle  and reduce production loss after regular maintenance.  Digital dashboards monitor  ionic concentration of  the system to stabilize evaporation capacity. Also,  the automated rinsing mechanism prevents blockage  of process route to maintain solid-liquid separation  performance. The upgraded system can increase  treatment capacity by 400% from 400 metric tons to Introduce the Ammonium  Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System 2.0  to existing facilities 2,000 metric tons a month. Accordingly, the system will  become standardized in new facilities built in the future. Since 2018, TSMC has reduced over 15,800 metric tons  of ammonium sulfate liquid waste outsourced for  treatment and produced 4,200 metric tons of industrial  ammonium sulfate crystals. The value created from  waste recycling and reduction has exceeded NT$35  million. TSMC will adopt the "smart copy" technique 1.0 2.0 to introduce the Ammonium Sulfate Waste  Crystallization System to existing facilities.In  2022, the system can reduce ammonium sulfate  outsourced for treatment by an estimated 60,000  metric tons per year and yield more than 15,000  metric tons of industrial ammonium sulfate  crystals, which will create NT$130 million in value. In addition to proactively developing waste recycling  technologies to recycle and reuse waste materials,  TSMC initiated a project to build our first Zero-waste  Manufacturing Center. Proposing a novel circular  economy model, the project aims to purify waste  resources into semiconductor-grade chemicalsthat  will return to TSMC manufacturing processes. The  recycled material will substitute for at least 30%  of raw material demand. The project also plans to recover residual heat from waste resources as assisting  energy, which will reduce energy demand in recycling  processes, enabling TSMC to truly meet its sustainability  goal of developing green manufacturing using green  technologies.   TSMC's first Zero-waste Manufacturing Center, which will  be located in Central Taiwan Science Park, was approved  by the Board of Directors in 2020. The construction  work begins in 2021. Guided by the three principles of maximum waste reduction, optimal environmental  benefits, and minimized management risk, the center  is expected to reduce outsourced waste treatment  by 140,000 metric tons each year and create NT$1.2  billion of value in waste recycling and reduction. It will  be our first facility based on circular economy model.  The Zero-waste centers will gradually expand to be  built in Hsinchu and Tainan as TSMC continues to  pursue its sustainability goals. Committed to source reduction and achieving a circular  economy, TSCM also takes full responsibility for the  management of outsourced waste treatment through  the Waste Treatment Vendor Sustainability Enhancement  Project. For new vendor selection, TSMC has a cross- division team of experts and a comprehensive selection  procedure to carefully choose outstanding vendors to  work with. A document review and onsite operational  inspection will be conducted in six dimensions . Qualified  vendors are subjected to weekly and monthly document  reviews and quarterly and annual onsite inspections.  Eight dimensions covering 166 inspection items are listed  in accordance with the Waste Treatment Vendor Annual  Audit Plan. Lastly, vendor replacement is carried out  based on the three dimensions stipulated in the Annual  Evaluation for Waste Treatment Vendors.  In 2020, TSMC audited over 55 waste treatment vendors  on site, reaching a 100% inspection rate, and 79  deficiencies were improved. The percentage of vendors  evaluated as "excellent" and "good" has improved from  36% in 2015 to 75%. The number of vendors certified  for ISO14001 increased to 44, accounting for 80% of  all vendors. In striving for excellence, TSMC initiated  the Intelligent Waste Management Procedure with  Full Traceability. Through the introduction of smart  automation, manual inspections can be replaced with  systematic management of suspicious activities through  auto-detection and reporting. The procedure will  enhance vendor sustainability as TSMC is committed to  achieving green manufacturing. Percentage No. of Certified Vendors In 2020, TSMC built an industry-leading intelligent  waste management procedure with full traceability.  Through multiple automated and intelligent projects,  TSMC strengthens management of three outsourced  areas of waste clean-up, treatment, and recycled  product transport and flow to continue improving  waste product life cycle management. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with the Environmental  Protection Administration (EPA) to establish the  Automated Waste Disposal Declaration Platform.  Along with TSMC’s enhanced GPS Satellite Fleet  System, the real-time, comprehensive, automated, and highly efficient waste clean-up monitoring procedure,  it will save 16,000 hours of labor and 240,000 papers used  for receipts in 2021 at most. It increases accuracy and  efficiency for the industry in waste declaration. TSMC  was invited by EPA to share its experiences developing  the platform and shared a video on the Industrial Waste  Report and Management System website to encourage  others in the industry to follow suit. Once waste enters a treatment facility, proper handling is of  utmost importance. TSMC started to upgrade the onsite remote  monitoring system at 6 key waste treatment vendors to replace conventional manual inspections. First, TSMC worked  with waste treatment vendors on stipulating checkpoints  in treatment processes and set up onsite equipment.  The system automatically tracks and integrates data,  images, and declaration information. In addition, it  supervises treatment processes and sends out anomaly  alerts through license plate and image recognition  technology. After that, TSMC carries out onsite anomaly  investigations and manages suspicious activities in  treatment processes based on the auto-detection and  report system mode. a circular economy. TSMC launched a Recycled  Product Flow Cloud Reporting Platform in 2020 and  will require vendors to report on recycling product  transport and flow item by item instead of declaring  on a monthly basis in 2021. As the transport footprint  is more real-time and transparent, the life cycle of  waste is more comprehensively managed based on  full traceability. In 2020, TSMC hosted the first Waste Management  Practice Forum, providing a summary of regulatory  changes to serve as a basis for legal compliance. TSMC  also shared its management tips and experiences  with common deficiencies and deficiencies subjected  to penalties. Through face-to-face communication  with vendors on enhancing the management  procedure, vendors are also encouraged to  advocate it to their clients as a joint effort to achieve  environmental sustainability. Note 1: As of 2020, the unit for unit air pollutant emissions is changed from 'L/ 8-inch equivalent wafer mask layer' to 'L/12-inch equivalent wafer mask layer'.  Note 2: Increased the 2030 Sustainable Development Goal from 45% to a 50% reduction from the base year.  Note 3: Abnormal occurrences are defined as equipment failure that cannot be repaired within 24 hours or abnormal emissions due to suspended use. ▪Reduction rate of volatile organic gases > 98.3% TSMC is committed to air pollution control. In 2020, we  were able to enhance volatile organic gases reduction  rate to 98.3% and achieve our 2030 Goals ahead  of schedule  because of the Low-efficiency Single  Zeolite Rotor Concentrators Upgrade Initiative and  the introduction of dual zeolite rotor concentrators to  new facilities. This 98.3% significantly exceeds legal  requirements of 90% from the Air Pollution Control and  Emissions Standards for the Semiconductor Industry  and the suggested reduction rate of 92% from the  Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) in the Air pollutant emissions from the semiconductor industry  are primarily comprised of acid/alkaline gases and  volatile organic gases. TSMC has adopted Separation  BACT for Volatile Organic Gases. Through effective  separation of emissions from sources and highly effective  local scrubbers, TSMC is now managing air pollutants  through multi-phase BAT to reduce unit air pollutant  emission and build a sustainable future. Emission from Sources and Multi-Phase BAT for pollution  prevention. We continue to work with experts in the  industry to advance prevention systems by introducing  additional local scrubbers and improving terminal  prevention facilities to ensure that air pollutant emissions  meet or exceed government standards.  In the first phase of source separation, newly-installed  high-efficiency local scrubbers will be treating specific  toxic gases, corrosive gases, flammable gases,  perfluorocarbon greenhouse gases, and other acid/ alkaline gases. In the second phase, waste gases  containing low concentrations of inorganic acid/alkaline  gases will be sent to the central scrubber, which is the  terminal prevention facility, for second-phase water rinsing  and neutralization treatment. For volatile organic gases,  facilities determine whether condensing local treatment  facilities are required based on boiling points. The exhaust  will then be channeled into zeolite rotor concentrators. By  classifying and separating exhaust gases from the source  and utilizing second-phase treatment, we can effectively  increase air emission treatment efficiency. TSMC continues to expand on existing production capacity  and accelerate R&D progress. To prevent further air pollution  from new processes and chemicals, TSMC established the  New Tool and New Chemical Review Committee, comprised  of personnel from the Corporate Environment Safety  and Health Division, Industrial Safety and Environmental  Protection Division, and Facility Division. The committee  is responsible for reviewing the safety and environmental  impact of new tools and chemicals. New chemicals must  go through two stages of review. The first review verifies  risks related to the new chemicals and establishes  control measures, and determines the environmental  impact of the new process or chemical based on its  properties. During this stage, the review committee also  assesses how to classify exhaust gases and which local  treatment facilities to use. The second review is to assess  environmental impact from production verification tests  and establish the exhaust gas classification to serve as the  standard when using the new chemical. Fabs must apply for a Management of Change before  they become eligible for new chemicals that have already  passed the second review. The Industrial Safety and  Environmental Protection Division and Facility Division  must first confirm the effectiveness of air pollution  prevention equipment towards the new chemical before  its deployment into mass production. In 2020, TSMC  remained proactive in air pollution prevention and  conducted 422 reviews for 239 new chemicals and 183  new tools. In 2020, TSMC collaborated with suppliers  to test new local treatment facilities with different  mechanisms such as adsorption, burning, and wet  electrostatic precipitation (Wet-EP). Local treatment  equipment were evaluated for safety and performance by  TSMC and for efficiency by a third-party. Intensive testing  was conducted to ensure that local treatment equipment  are able to deliver on-target pollutant reduction before  they are introduced into pollutant treatment for specific  semiconductor process.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society TSMC adopts eight different types of local scrubbers to  pre-treat high-concentration exhaust based on pollutant  properties. The eight different local scrubbers include  thermal-wet, burn-wet, plasma-wet, wet type in facility,  wet type in process, adsorption, condensation, and high- temperature thermal scrubber. As TSMC continues to  develop its manufacturing, the company also continues  to collaborate with suppliers for new local scrubbers. In  2020, TSMC started using Wet-EP local treatment for wet  etching. Wet-EP local scrubbers use a corona technology  that is highly effective against acid/alkaline gases and can  deliver >95% sulfuric acid (H2SO4) reduction. In 2020, our scrubber with dosing system for acid alkaline gases from  12-inch wafer fab became the first to extend the use of  local treatment facilities from chemical storage tanks to  wastewater tanks. By installing a highly efficient wet local high concentrations of wastewater tanks, the reduction  rate was able to achieve a 95%, thereby relieving the load  from central terminal treatment facilities. By upgrading  local treatment facilities and separating emissions from  the source, TSMC was able to achieve a 27% reduction in  ammonia (NH3) emissions from 2019 to 2020. As air pollutant emissions evolve and increase with  process technology, TSMC has been working to improve  the performance of terminal prevention facility. In 2019,  volatile organic gases accounted for 34% of TSMC air  pollutant emissions, and we consider volatile organic gas  reduction to be a top priority. In 2020, TSMC collaborated  with prevention equipment suppliers to raise the reduction  standard for single zeolite rotor concentrators from 95% to  97%. To further improve adsorption, the concentrators will also adopt a new and highly effective fiberglass substrate.  Between 2019 to 2020, a total of eight single zeolite rotor  concentrators were replaced as part of the Low-efficiency  Single Zeolite Rotor Concentrators Upgrade Initiative. We  intend to replace eight more low-efficiency single zeolite  rotor concentrators in 2021 to ensure the reduction rate  of volatile organic gases can exceed 97% steadily. In 2020,  a full roll-out was achieved  for the clean-gas-desorbing  zeolite rotor concentrators developed in 2017 in all 12- inch wafer fabs before 7nm process. All 12-inch wafer  fabs are now equipped with optimized parameters for  single zeolite rotor concentrators to ensure the average  reduction rate for volatile organic gases in all 12-inch wafer  fabs exceeds 98%. adds a new rotor concentration process after the exhaust  is adsorbed and burned by the first rotor concentrator.  After the second rotor concentration process, exhaust  will be channeled back into the first rotor concentrator  for processing. The repeated process achieves a 99.5%  reduction rate. As of 2020, Fab 15B and Fab 18A have  adopted dual zeolite rotor concentrators. In 2021, dual  zeolite rotor concentrators are expected to roll out to Fab  18B, Fab 12 P8, Advanced Backend Fab 6, and other fabs. In 2020, the average reduction rate of volatile organic  gases in TSMC reached 98.3%, enabling us to meet our  2030 Sustainable Development Goals ahead of schedule.  The reduction is a testimony to our commitment to air  pollution reduction. Metric tons TSMC uses scrubbing towers and regular demister layer  treatment approaches against acid/ alkaline gases. To  improve the overall efficiency of terminal prevention  facilities, in 2020, the Facility Division and the  Industrial Technology Research Institute collaborated  to design a High-efficiency Acid and Alkaline Scrubber.  This new scrubber is equipped with a high-efficiency  demister, airflow distributor, and filter. Regulations for  packed layers, sprinklers, and Raschig rings were also  updated. Fab 18B is set to be the first to acquire the  new scrubber in 2021. Note 1: TSMC air pollutant emissions were reported in accordance with    local laws and regulations. Note 2: Air pollutant emissions  include the total emissions of eight gases:  hydrocarbons (THC), sulfric acid (H2SO4), hydorchloric acid (HCl),  nintric acid (HNO3), hydrofluoric acid (HF), phosphoric acid (H3PO4),  chlorine (Cl2), and ammonia (NH3). 120 -0.30 0 -0.60 300.2 295.2 309.3 298.4 299.6 0.87 0.72 0.69 0.62 0.50 Note : Figures from TSMC Fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  and VisEra. Data excludes WaferTech as there is no total hydrocarbon  monitor to provide any record of reduction rates. In 2020, the Facility Division also collaborated with the  Corporate Environment Safety and Health Division to  establish a Stack Emission Baseline. TSMC implemented  mitigation measures for stack emissions and monitor  results regularly. As a result of the aforementioned  reduction efforts, unit air pollutant emission (L/12- inch equivalent wafer mask layer) in 2020 was reduced  by 46% against the base year of 2015, meaning that  we achieved the 2030 Goal of 45% reduction ahead  of schedule, and have therefore increased the 2030  Sustainable Development Goals to a 50% reduction  from the base year. 100.0 96.4 96.9 97.8 TSMC continues to explore ways to achieve air  pollution reduction and improve the performance of  air pollution prevention equipment. Before introducing  new prevention technologies, we assess viability  in terms of space, safety, and economics. In 2020,  TSMC introduced three new technologies: High- efficiency Acid and Alkaline Scrubber, Improvement  Program for Inefficient Thermal Oxidizer of Zeolite  Rotor Concentrators, and AI Parameter Optimization  for Single Zeolite Rotor Concentrators. To achieve our  goal of smart manufacturing, we began applying smart parameter tuning to air pollution prevention facilities  for single zeolite rotor concentrators. Concentration  level at entry, temperature, air flow, and other external  parameters are imported into the tool so that it can  automatically set the optimal burning temperature,  desorption temperature, rotor revolution, and other  operating parameters. By stimulating functions and the  artificial neural network, we can enable equipment to  recommend optimal settings for maximum reduction  of volatile organic gases. TSMC completed preliminary  testing and found that optimal desorption flow and  rotor revolution will be able to increase the reduction  rate of volatile organic gases of single zeolite rotor  concentrators to 98% or more. TSMC works to actively improve equipment efficiency, and  is strengthening stability and monitoring of air pollution  control equipment to ensure compliance with local rules  and regulations. All air pollution prevention equipment  are equipped with "N+1" (at least one) backup system(s)  and an uninterruptable power supply system to guarantee  continuous operation. In order to maintain continuous  emissions monitoring, prevention equipment is also  equipped with comprehensive alert systems, including  a dual-track independent monitoring system that is  immediately activated upon system failure. The system  will alert the Facility Monitoring and Control Center and  Industrial Safety Emergency Response Center to repair  equipment or switch backup systems. Central Treatment  Facilities 12-inch Wafer Fabs  Local Scrubber  different pollutants, and require different local scrubbers.  To ensure effective management over the parameters  on local scrubbers, TSMC debuted the Facility Parameter  Change Management System in 12-inch wafer fabs in 2020.  The system can effectively manage operating parameters  on local scrubbers and terminal prevention facility.  The parameters will then automatically be compared  to standard parameters at a fixed time every day to  ensure prevention equipment are operating on optimal  parameters. Inconsistent parameters will be automatically  reported to the person in charge for system confirmation  and to confirm stack emission in normal condition. With  the addition of an early warning system, the Air Pollution  Prevention Equipment Operation Status Platform, TSMC  reported 0 abnormal occurrences in air pollution prevention  equipment to supervising authorities in 2020.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Industrial Safety Emergency Response Center. Facility Monitoring & Control Center. TSMC believes in "Zero Emissions"and is committed to  reducing air pollutant emissions. In order to maintain  high efficiency in air pollution prevention equipment,  TSMC introduced the Facility Parameter Change  Management System to monitor optimal operating  parameters and also consistently monitor and control  concentration levels at the stack emissions. We are  deploying a two-method approach – emissions  separation at the source and improving performance of  terminal prevention facilities – to reduce concentration  levels in our emissions. In 2020, the Facility Division and Corporate Environment  Safety and Health Division collaborated to introduce the  Management Mechanism for Stack Emission Baseline.  The air pollutant baseline was developed by gathering  data on emission concentration levels at stack emissions  in TSMC Fabs in Taiwan. We discovered that the  concentration level of volatile organic gases exceeded  regulatory standards from cross-contamination in  exhaust duct. Stacks generally employ a regenerative  thermal oxidizer that uses shared exhaust duct, which  can result in cross-contamination. As such, we were only  able to achieve a 95% reduction in volatile organic gases  for regenerative thermal oxidizers, which still has room  for improvement when compared to the 98% for direct- fired thermal oxidizers. In order to target exhaust ducts with high concentration levels,  TSMC launched the Improvement Program for Inefficient  Thermal Oxidizer of Zeolite Rotor Concentrators in 2020  to replace regenerative thermal oxidizers with direct-fired  thermal oxidizers, a single pathway oxidizer. Condensation type  scrubbers were also installed at the pollution source to capture  organic matter with high boiling points and drastically reduce  concentration levels in stack emission from terminal prevention  facilities. In 2020, upgraded regenerative thermal oxidizers  achieved an average of over 98% reduction in volatile organic  gases. In addition to deploying the Renovation Program for Air  Pollution Prevention Equipment to replace expired terminal  prevention facility for stacks with exceeding acid/ alkaline gases  emission baseline, TSMC is also investigating pollutants from the  source, implementing the Roll-out Program for High-Efficiency  Local Scrubbers, and regularly monitoring progress. In 2020, TSMC carried out three programs to target 79 stacks that  exceeded concentration baselines. A total of 36 exhaust ducts  were renovated and inspected. A budget will be allocated to  continue renovating the remaining stacks. By implementing the Management Mechanism for Stack  Emission Baseline and renovating stacks that exceed the  concentration baseline, TSMC achieved 46% (L/12-inch  equivalent wafer mask layer) reduction in unit air pollutant  emission from the base year of 2015 and was able to achieve our  2030 Sustainable Development Goals ahead of schedule. Employees are TSMC's most important asset. We value mutual commitments with  our employees. We dedicate ourselves to creating a challenging and enjoyable work  environment full of opportunities to acquire new skills, establishing an open-style  management system, providing compensation and benefits packages that are above  the industry average for employees, and becoming a world-class company that our  employees are proud of. Talent Attraction and Retention P.130 Talent Development P.140 Human Rights P.145 Occupational Safety  and Health P.150 140.8 Note 1: For more details, please refer to 4. Employee Commitment. Note 2: In 2020, TSMC expanded external recruitment due to growing labor demands and therefore only 45.2% of vacancies  were filled through internal transfers, missing the 2020 target of 50%. TSMC will continue to facilitate internal transfers  and strive towards the goal of "Over 75% of manager positions shall be filled through internal promotions".  Conduct Employee Opinion Survey on Core Values  every two years and reinforce core values ▪Maintain total turnover rate between 5%–10%    ▪Total turnover rate: 5.3%          ▪Less than 10% new hire (< 1 year) turnover rate ▪Promote diverse industry-academia  cooperation with internships, competitions, and  the comprehensive Semiconductor Program  on device/integration, process/module, and  equipment engineering. Welcome 5,000  students from global universities and graduate  programs to enroll in aforementioned events ▪Promote diverse industry-academia cooperation with  internships, competitions, and the comprehensive  Semiconductor Program on device/integration,  process/module, and equipment engineering.  Welcome 3,500 students from global universities  and graduate programs to enroll in aforementioned  events Note 3: For more details, please refer to 2.1 Employee Turnover. Note 4: Related explanation on Fulfill Internal Transfer Policy has been moved from Talent Attraction and   Retention to Talent Development in consideration of the scope and definition of the subject. ▪45.2% of job vacancies were filled through internal  transfers Note2     ▪79.3% of manager positions were filled  through internal promotions Target：2,000 students   ▪New hire (< 1 year) turnover rate: 15.7% ▪Promoted diverse industry-academia cooperation  with internships, competitions, and the  comprehensive Semiconductor Program on device/ integration, process/module, and equipment  engineering. Welcomed 2,000 students from global  universities and graduate programs to enroll in  aforementioned events Target：5% to 10% Target：< 13.5% Achieved Exceeded Missed Target In TSMC's strategy of talent attraction and retention,  industry-academia cooperation is mainly structured  through the Semiconductor Program on device/ integration, process/module, and equipment  engineering. Beginning in 2021, the Semiconductor  Program will be expanded to include information  engineering so that students from different departments  may also enroll and potentially become semiconductor  professionals for the local semiconductor industry.  TSMC also intends to attract and retain talents, bolster  employee commitment, and support long-term company  growth by maintaining our status as a leading employer. "Putting the right people with shared visions and values  in the right positions" has always been TSMC's guideline  for recruiting talents, designing compensation packages,  managing employee performance, and developing  training programs. We are committed to our declaration  of Diversity and Inclusion at TSMC and all employees at  TSMC are treated equally regardless of gender, religion,  race, nationality or political affiliation. With shared  vision, we work toward a common goal under a common  commitment. With shared values, we abide by a common  set of values and a unified code of conduct. By putting  the right person into the right position, TSMC enables  its employees to contribute to the Company where they  are most needed and allows employees to develop  with the company, thereby generating success for both  employees and the Company. Note: For more details on TSMC's partnership with universities, please  refer to the Innovation Management section of this report. skills when assessing candidates. Due to the Company's  expansion and business needs in recent years, mobility  has become an important criterion as well. To this end,  TSMC has developed a number of selection criteria  on integrity, resilience, initiative, innovation, decision- making, and other qualities. Candidates shall be evaluated  by selection criteria assessment and interviews. Responding to technological changes and the rise  of a new generation of talent, TSMC recognizes that  only through proactive measures in talent incubation,  recruitment, and retention, can the Company tap into  employees' capabilities in R&D, manufacturing, and  service to thereby sustain TSMC's long-term competitive  advantages in the face of global competition and  challenges. Furthermore, considering that TSMC  operations are largely based in Taiwan, TSMC is aiming to  develop high-quality talents for Taiwan's semiconductor  industry. To such ends, TSMC has cooperated with  prestigious universities in Taiwan to design the  comprehensive Semiconductor Program that will  contain theoretical and practical courses. The Program  was first launched in National Tsing Hua University and  has since spread to National Taiwan University,  National  Cheng Kung University, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung  University, National Taipei University of Technology, and  National Taiwan University of Science and Technology  in 2020. In 2021, TSMC will be collaborating with world- leading IT companies to expand the Program to include  credited information engineering courses that integrate  theory and practicum. The goal for 2030 is to have 5,000  students around the world participate in our industry- academia programs. promoted more than their male counterparts at a ratio  of 1.11:1. As of the end of 2020, TSMC has 56,831 employees  globally. Among them, 38,456 employees are managers,  professionals, and assistants while the remaining 18,375  are technicians. As the semiconductor industry is both  knowledge and technology-intensive, over 80% of our  managers and professionals hold a Master's degree or  higher. Around 90% of TSMC's employees are based  in the principal place of business, Taiwan, with the  remaining 10% in subsidiaries in Asia (including China,  Japan, South Korea, etc.), North America, Europe, etc. Due to the nature of the semiconductor industry and  local social/cultural background, male employees  account for more than 60% of employees and 80% of  managers, professionals, and assistants at TSMC. Female  workers are the pillars of production line technicians,  with around 80% of the technicians being women. As  TSMC's fabs become increasingly automated, there is a  declining need for production line technicians, a group  consisting mainly of female employees, which is leading  to a gradual drop in the total percentage of female  employees at TSMC. Despite the decline in the percentage of female  employees in recent years, under fair selection  mechanism, TSMC's female employees enjoyed a similar  promotion ratio in 2020 with their male counterparts, at  0.90:1, female section managers or above are generally Note: Junior management positions include first-line managers; top  management positions include Vice Presidents and higher, excluding  Chairman, board directors, and CEO. TSMC cares about diversity and inclusion. We are striving  towards gender equality and we continue to spotlight  issues relating to female workers. Every employee's  desire for personal pursuits is respected and we also  seek for different solutions. We welcome women to join  the TSMC family and we will ensure that female workers  are retained for the long-term so they can live up to their  full potential and make valuable contributions to TSMC  and society. 12.8 13.0 13.6 13.6 13.7 11.7 20.0 20.0 40.1 39.3 38.7 37.8 37.1 12.3 12.6 12.5 10.0 12.7 11.1 Note: The total of 56,831 employees only includes regular employees and contractors expected to become regular employees. In addition to the two groups mentioned, TSMC employs 284 contractors, who are not included in the figures  listed in the Global Workforce Structure. Contractors include employees with disabilities (269 individuals) and employees for special projects or short term support (15 individuals). Managers Professionals Assistants Technicians Taiwan Asia North America Europe 18~20 21~30 31~40 41~50 51~60 60+ Ph.D. Master's Bachelor's Other Higher Education High School Regular Contractor 5,123 22,449 3,870 4,294 32,269 2,308 1,127 32 24 10,096 16,315 7,276 1,854 171 2,257 21,368 8,904 1,685 1,522 35,733 3 87.5 80.8 80.1 23.4 63.0 58.6 69.6 61.5 57.1 67.1 64.1 55.3 64.0 74.0 90.1 80.4 60.9 30.2 20.1 62.9 50.0 734 5,857 10.3 5,318 27,767 48.9 962 4,832 8.5 14,081 18,375 32.3 18,950 51,219 90.1 1,632 3,940 6.9 493 1,620 2.9 20 52 0.1 18 42 0.1 4,960 15,056 26.5 9,138 25,453 44.8 5,876 13,152 23.1 1,043 2,897 5.1 247 2,504 4.4 5,195 26,563 46.7 5,718 14,622 25.7 3,901 5,586  9.8 6,034 7,556 13.3 21,092 56,825 100.0 3 6 0.0 60 231 0.4 12.5 19.2 19.9 76.6 37.0 41.4 30.4 38.5 42.9 32.9 35.9 44.7 36.0 26.0 9.9 19.6 39.1 69.8 79.9 37.1 50.0 WaferTech Managers 1 0.97 Professionals 1 Assistants 1 Technicians 1 1 Managers 1 Professionals Assistants 1 Technicians Managers Professionals Managers Professionals Assistants Technicians Managers Professionals Assistants Technicians 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0.93 0.97 1.13 0.96 0.88 0.91 1.11 0.94 0.78 0.71 0.86 1.06 1.03 0.75 0.83 0.91 1.00 Recruitments at global branches are mainly through  local hiring. However, in the principal place of business,  Taiwan, we must consider technological development  and diversity. Therefore, we target recent graduates and  overseas professionals for more professional positions.  This contributes to a diverse and inclusive talent pool and  also fulfills the Company's long-term development needs. TSMC's core values, corporate culture, and world- leading business performance has again warranted  our placement on top of the 2021 Top 10 Most Admired  Companies to Young Generations list by the Cheers  magazine. In 2020, to align with the Company's growth,  TSMC expanded recruitment and introduced 7,322 new  hires in Taiwan and 8,193 new hires around the world.  Among them, 79.5% of all new hires are below the age of 30. Recruitment in Taiwan was through official website,  campus recruitment, intern programs, JDP (Joint  Development Program), RDSS (Research Development  Substitute Services), social media, and more. Our  Internship Program is a major annual program in Taiwan  which, in recent years, has been expanded to TSMC North  America, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing). In addition  to recruiting intern candidates through referrals by  professors, campus department offices, and employees,  we reach out to potential candidates through social  media and face-to-face job fairs on campus. In 2020, TSMC launched the DNA Program which revolves  around the following three targets: Develop, Navigate, and Advance Offer. The Program offers diverse learning  activities and actual project engagement to give interns  the opportunity to explore themselves and learn about  the semiconductor industry and related technologies  as well. TSMC held 18 lectures, course programs, and  workshops in 2020, offering interns with a wealth of  diverse learning experiences. Outstanding interns were  awarded an advance offer to TSMC upon graduation,  contributing to success for both students and the  Company. In 2020, the world was largely impacted by the COVID-19  pandemic. Taiwan remained relatively unaffected and  so, with disease prevention measures on hand, TSMC  continued to host the Summer Internship Program for  Taiwan fabs and recruited 347 interns, of which 30%  (105 interns) were female students. After the internship,  114 interns received advance offers after evaluation,  accounting for 33% of total participants. Among them,  25% were female. The percentage of female students  participating in the internship program, receiving  advance offers, or joining TSMC are higher than the  current percentage of female professionals at TSMC  (19.2%). This shows that TSMC continues to strive  towards gender equality in the workplace. Unfortunately,  due to the pandemic, Intern Programs at TSMC North  America, TSMC (China), and TSMC (Nanjing) had to be  scaled back. A total of 42 interns were recruited, of which  14.2% (6 interns) were female students. TSMC's internship program allows students to familiarize  themselves with the industry and identify a domain  of interest for further progression. Students can then  register for semiconductor-related courses when they  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society return to school, better adapt to the industry in the  future, and reduce the transitional phase required for  adapting to the workplace. As of 2020, an average of 40%  of the interns from 2018 to 2019 have joined TSMC either  through advance offers or regular recruitment, indicating  that internship recruitment program is effective in  attracting talent for TSMC at an early stage. with the Overseas Talent Recruitment Program in  regions with a high density of semiconductor talents.  In terms of industry-academia cooperation, TSMC has  maintained close contact with MIT, Stanford University,  UC Berkeley, and other prestigious universities around  the world in recent years to incubate top research talents  and ensure early engagement with global talents for  future recruitment. TSMC is also consistently recruiting  experienced semiconductor professionals in key  technological hubs in the U.S., India, Canada, Japan, and  other European nations. Note: Data includes Taiwan Facilities. Total Interns Interns Receiving Advance Offers Interns Who Have Joined or Are About to Join TSMC Female Interns Who Have Joined or Are About to Join TSMC Female Interns Receiving Advance Offers Female Interns According to Article 38 of the People with Disabilities  Rights Protection Act in Taiwan, the number of disabled  people with the capability to work shall be no less than  1% of a company's total employees, and when a company  employs a person with severe disabilities, that person shall  be calculated as two. In addition, companies that do not  employ a sufficient amount of people with disabilities shall  periodically pay subsidies to the Disabled Employment  Funds held by competent authorities for labor affairs at  local municipalities and counties (cities) based on the  deficient amount. The amount of the subsidies is based  on the deficient amount of employed disabled workers  multiplied by monthly basic wage. In line with the government's policies and regulations, Unit: people TSMC endeavored to provide job opportunities to  those with disabilities. In 2020, we also maintained  partnership programs with various universities in  Taiwan to provide high-quality positions, such as  Campus Recruitment Representatives, for disabled  university students or graduates. In 2020 TSMC's fabs in Taiwan complied with regulations  and employed a total of 367 new employees with mild  or moderate disabilities, and 87 with severe disabilities,  with the weighted ratio reaching 1% of total employees.  In 2020, VisEra also provided vacancies for disabled  candidates. However, due to the nature of available job  vacancies, VisEra received a dearth of suitable applicants,  leading to its failure to meet the 1% requirement, and has  paid subsidies according to legal requirements. 1.1 1.0 392 4 0.7 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 392 3 0.4 394 3 0.4 0.3 454 TSMC introduces mobile recruitment bus for the first time  to offer students with diverse interview experiences. In 2020, COVID-19 impacted global industries.  In response to the demand for increased output  capacity and technological development, TSMC  continued to recruit more employees for our fabs,  especially in Taiwan. TSMC started adopting online  recruitment and remote interviews beginning in  March to offer a more flexible interview approach  for candidates. This ensures that we can fulfill the  rising demand for talents while also guaranteeing  the safety and health of all those involved. TSMC  held 4 campus recruitment webinars for senior  students in college preparing to graduate in 2020.  With the pandemic contained during the second  half of 2020, TSMC relaunched some of the campus  recruitment events, holding 18 interview sessions at  6 universities throughout September and October.  We also introduced a mobile recruitment bus for the first time to offer students with diverse interview  experiences. In 2020, we hired 7,322 new employees  at our fabs in Taiwan, which was 1.65 times the  number of new hires in 2019. During the recruitment, TSMC continues to follow  principles of "putting right people with shared  visions and values in the right positions". We  continued to adhere to internal interview standard  scales and evaluations to ensure that all new hires  maintain a shared vision. At the same time, TSMC  provides orientation, training programs, buddy  program and more to help newcomers to adapt to  work environment and role faster. These practices  encourage employees to stay with TSMC to push the  envelope of technology together. "When we saw TSMC's recruitment bus on  campus, I thought it was pretty cool. I had to  take this opportunity and see if I could become  a part of TSMC." To help employees plan their career paths, TSMC is  dedicated to enhancing the transparency of internal job  opportunities, thereby encouraging internal transfers,  allowing the right people to gravitate toward the right  positions, and reducing turnover rates. In 2020, TSMC  achieved 100% internal transfer completion rate.  However, TSMC expanded external recruitment due to  growing labor demands and therefore only 45.2% of  vacancies were filled through internal transfers, missing  the 50% target for 2020. TSMC does remain committed Note: In 2020, TSMC witnessed a large increase in new hires and therefore the  new hire turnover rate exceeded the originally anticipated 13.5%. 4.2 4.3 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year 11.6 11.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.5 4.8 4.9 15.7Note 5.1 5.3 Unit: % to talent development and will promote employees  with potential when necessary for organizational  growth. 79.3% of manager positions were filled through  internal promotions, reaching the annual target. TSMC  will continue to strive to fulfill internal transfers and  promotions to meet rising demands from organizational  growth but also a need for personal career development. 7.9 7.5 4.8 5,087 9.9 8,193 14.4 20 TSMC provides competitive compensation packages  to attract and retain the best talents, and to reward  employee performance and encourage long-term  contribution. Our packages include a base salary, Note 1: The figures for 2016–2017 cover TSMC's Taiwan fabs, while those for  2018–2020 cover both TSMC's Taiwan fabs and its subsidiaries. Note 2: Due to a large number of new vacancies and external recruitment  expansion projects between 2019 and 2020, the percentage of  vacancies filled through internal transfers was significantly lower in  2019 and 2020 than it was between 2016 and 2018. should be between 5% and 10%, which has thus become  the Company's long-term goal. In 2020, TSMC's employee  turnover rate was 5.3%, which is in line with what we  believe to be a healthy turnover rate. 62.2 63.4 64.7 50.8 45.2 allowance, employee cash bonuses, and profit-sharing  schemes. The total compensation of an employee  is determined based on individual expertise, job  responsibility, performance, commitment to long-term  contribution, and the Company's operations and profit. As TSMC continues to grow in revenue and profit, we have  increased total compensation and benefits for employees  from around NT$99.7 billion to NT$140.8 billion between  2016 and 2020, and average compensation and benefits  for employees from around NT$2.12 million to NT$ 2.48  million during the same period. 2.122 2.144 2.478 2.219 2.143 In 2020, TSMC's revenue and profits reached new record  highs. The cash bonus and profit-sharing scheme allocated  for Taiwan facilities was valued at NT$69.5 billion. In 2020,  the average total compensation for a new TSMC engineer  with a master's degree was higher than NT$1.8 million  including 12 months in base salary, 2 months in year-end  bonus, cash bonuses and profit-sharing scheme. The  average total compensation for direct labor was higher  than NT$1.0 million, meaning the average monthly income  is four times the minimum wage in Taiwan. ▪In 2020, the median of global employees' annual compensation (excluding pensions and benefits)  was about NT$1.81 million, and the ratio between the total annual compensation of the CEO and  the median employee compensation was about 233:1. Considering the differences in compensation  structure across countries, the data of median annual compensation is based on the actual amount  paid to fulltime employees with full-year seniority. Average Compensation(NT$) Median Compensation (NT$) Full-time Employees (ppl) In addition, the Taiwan Stock Exchange requires all listed  companies in Taiwan to disclose the number, the average  and median compensation of full-time employees in  non-executive positions and their respective differences  against the previous year (as shown in the table below).  The numbers are calculated in accordance with the  regulations of the Taiwan Stock Exchange, which excludes  executive officers (managers) and employees eligible for  exemption. For those not employed with the Company  for a full year, the data is prorated. And the profit-sharing  amount is at profit-year basis therefore part of the  compensation data is projected. Up by We hope the Company can continue to grow in the future  and so TSMC adjusted the salary structure for all formal  employees in Taiwan facilities in January of 2021. Some  variable pay items were recategorized into the base  salary and each employee experienced a 20% increase  in base salary, increasing monthly disposable income  for entry-level employees. In addition to the salary  structure changes, the annual salary adjustment for 2021  commence as planned. TSMC believes that a competitive  compensation can help the Company generate operational  success and maintain a leadership position above industry  peers in TSMC profits and overall compensation packages. $   ▪In order to maintain the competitiveness of our compensation, TSMC appropriately adjusts  employees' salaries annually, taking into consideration of the results of global salary surveys, market  salary scales, and economic indices in Taiwan and other overseas locations.   ▪In April 2020, TSMC gave salary raises to all TSMC employees in Taiwan and abroad. The salary  increase rate was 3%-5% for employees in Taiwan, 7% - 8% for employees in China, and 3% - 5% for  employees in other regions. ▪The employee incentive programs take into consideration TSMC's financial and operational  performance, future development, and the operational performance of each subsidiaries, with  linkage to employee's job responsibilities and performance. The programs are implemented with  short-term and long-term incentive schemes according to local industry practices.   ▪The incentive program of TSMC fabs in Taiwan is implemented over a period of two years. Cash  bonuses are paid quarterly to provide timely incentive and profit sharing is paid annually, in the  following year, to encourage long-term service and continuous contribution. The incentive programs  of overseas regions are either by annual cash bonus or by 1 to 3 years of long-term scheme. ▪In 2020, for TSMC employees, total compensation and benefits which includes salary, allowances,  cash bonus, profit sharing, pensions, and other benefits, totaled NT$ 140.8 billion. Corporate Officer Shareholding Guidelines TSMC believes that long-term shareholding by corporate  officers can strengthen the link between corporate  officers and shareholders. In 2020, TSMC established the  Corporate Officer Shareholding Guidelines, requesting  the Chairman, CEO, and other corporate officers to hold  shares valued at a certain percentage of their annual  base salary. Throughout their time at TSMC, corporate  officers must maintain a certain value of shares as  required by the Company. To provide sufficient support in their personal and  work lives, TSMC offers employees parental leaves in  accordance with local laws and regulations, sets up  four kindergartens for fabs in Taiwan, and provides a  comprehensive leave management system. Employees  have flexibility in making use of their vacation days to  take care of their children. Employees who need to take  long leaves of absence for military service or severe  injuries can also apply for unpaid leaves, and then apply  for reinstatement after the expiration of the period, to  fulfil both personal and family needs. In 2020, a total of 557 employees in TSMC's Taiwan  facilities and VisEra applied for unpaid parental leaves, 1.3% 1.4% 1.5% 1.4% 1.5% To provide sufficient support in their life and work, TSMC sets up  four kindergartens for Taiwan facilities. and a total of 497 employees were scheduled to return  from unpaid parental leaves, of which 392 employees  returned either as scheduled or ahead of schedule,  leading to a return rate of 78.9%. The retention rate,  on the other hand, was 77.7%, since 306 out of 394  employees who resumed duty in 2019 were still in service  by the end of 2020.  In addition, in 2020, the number of TSMC employees aged  between 20 and 64 in Taiwan accounted for 0.33% of  Taiwan's population of the same age group. Meanwhile,  the number of employees' newborns was 2,469, which  was 1.5% of the total number of newborns in Taiwan,  an example of our outstanding benefits having positive  contributions to society. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society ♂ 78.8% ♀ ♂ 18.0% ♀ 79.2% Application  Rate 7.4% Return  Rate 78.9% 311 People Retention  Rate 77.7% 77.1% 77.8% TSMC values the well-being of its employees. The  company encourages employees to exercise regularly by  subsidizing 63 sports clubs, improving exercise facilities,  and holding regular sports events to help employees find  peers with similar sports interests for balance between  work and life. In 2020, TSMC was granted the Exercise  Enterprise Certification Award by Sports Administration of  the Ministry of Education. TSMC clubs are highly active Note 2. The clubs not only  participate in games hosted by Hsinchu Science Park, Central  Taiwan Science Park, and Southern Taiwan Science Park  Note 3 but also engage with other clubs in the community.  For example, the Ballroom Dancing Club of Hsinchu Science  Park was invited to participate in the end-of-year dance To encourage employees to strive towards long-term  Company development, TSMC offers employees benefits  that are better than the statutory requirements and  regulations for benefits such as holidays, insurance,  pensions, financial assistance for emergencies, subsidies  for marriage/ childbirth/ funerals, and discounts in  designated shops. Furthermore, all TSMC facilities are  equipped with 24-hour health centers, where healthcare  management professionals and appointed on-site  physicians provide quality services beyond those required  by legal statutes. The health centers work with hospitals  and Employee Assistance Program services providers  to offer comprehensive support for the emotional and  physical well-being of our employees  Note 1. Note 1: For more details, please refer to the Occupational Safety and Health  section of this report. Note 2: WaferTech is based in the state of Washington in the U.S. To comply with  local Covid-19 regulations, WaferTech did not convene any sport-related  club activities in 2020. Note 3: Including the Hsinchu Science Park Competition, Central Taiwan Science  Park Games, and Southern Taiwan Science Park Friendlies. performance by Industrial Technology Research Institute  while the Softball Club at Southern Taiwan Science Park  hosts tee ball games during the weekends to teach local  children about softball and fulfill their social responsibility. TSMC's employee pension system includes the Defined  Benefit Plan under the Taiwan Labor Standards Act,  the Defined Contribution Plan under the Taiwan Labor  Pension Act, as well as the regulations of labor laws in  overseas regions. In addition to statutory contributions,  we commission professional accountants and  consultants annually to conduct precise calculations of  our Company's pension fund, so as to assure sufficient  funding for employee pension payments in the future. TSMC recognizes and encourages employee performance  through performance management, profit-sharing bonus  system, development system, and promotion system. For  outstanding technical talents, TSMC provides a dual career  ladder system as an appropriate evaluation and recognition  approach. To recognize outstanding scientists and  engineers who have made prominent contributions to the  Company's success with their personal expertise, TSMC has  formulated the TSMC Academy Guidelines; to encourage  a culture of continued growth and innovation, TSMC held  the TQE (Total Quality Excellence& Innovation) Conference  and TQE Awards; to praise the outstanding performance  and contribution of internal instructors towards learning  efficiency and teaching, TSMC offers the Excellent Instructor  Award; the TSMC Excellent Labor Award recognizes ▪ The fair value of TSMC's planned assets in Taiwan was NT$5,066,203,000 at the end of  2020. In accordance with the above provisions, the amount of recognized expenses  of TSMC in 2020 was NT$ 204,915,000. The amount of accrued pension liabilities to be  contributed in accordance with the law was NT$ 11,914,074,000 at the end of 2020 ▪ TSMC in Taiwan made monthly contributions equal to 6% of each employee's  monthly salary to employees' pension accounts. The total amount of pension in  2020, including contributions from overseas subsidiaries, was NT$2,809,484,000 entry-level workers with outstanding performances; and  lastly, our Service Award is awarded in recognition and  appreciation of senior employees and their long-term  commitment and dedication. In 2020, with the CSR vision  of bettering society in mind, TSMC held the first TSMC CSR  AWARD to encourage employees to propose innovative ESG  ideas and incentivize sustainability programs.  In addition, TSMC encourages employees to compete for  distinguished talent awards offered outside of the company.  In 2020, a number of TSMC employees received national  awards, including the Model Labor Award of various science  parks, Outstanding Engineer Award, Excellent Young  Engineer Award, Taiwan Continuous Improvement Award,  and National Manager Excellence Award. 139 2020 TSMC Excellent Instructor Award Talent is a critical component to TSMC's success  and internal instructors are important drivers  for fostering talents within the Company. The  Excellent Instructor Award has been awarded  to internal instructors for teaching excellence  for 15 years now. We also hope that the award  can encourage other outstanding colleagues to  join the ranks of our instructors and share their  experiences for more efficient teachings. A total  of 63 instructors received awards from Dr. C.C.  Wei, CEO of TSMC, at the 2020 awards ceremony.  We also invited external presentation coaches  to share some tips on teaching and the key to  becoming a better instructor. TSMC's four core values of integrity, commitment,  innovation, and customer trust were defined since  Founder Dr. Morris Chang established the company.  Today, incumbent chairman Mark Liu and chief executive  officer C.C. Wei carry on the legacy by requiring all  employees to serve with the four core values of TSMC  in mind. Through interactive websites, microfilms,  employee-made films, conferences, lectures, and internal  journalism, TSMC's leadership continuously engages  with managers and employees to communicate the  Company's vision, core values, and business philosophy  as part of efforts to consolidate corporate culture, and  deepen mutual commitment between the Company and  its employees. To monitor employees' commitment to TSMC's core  values and to the Company, TSMC conducts biennial  surveys on how employees perceive the company's core  values. The survey scope in 2020 included TSMC's Taiwan  facilities, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech Note,  TSMC North America, TSMC Canada, TSMC Europe B.V,  TSMC Japan, and TSMC Korea. The survey covered 97.9%  of employees from TSMC & subsidiaries. For the 2020  survey, the valid response rate was 86% with a total of  52,464 surveys issued and 44,904 valid responses.  The 2020 Employee Opinion Survey on Company Core  Values contained the same four sections on integrity,  commitment, innovation, and customer trust as the 2018  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society survey did. Each section contained five questions. In  2020, the Employee Opinion Survey on Company Core  Values scores were tallied through positive responses  in which the total ratio of "strongly agrees" and "agrees"  from a five-point scale will be tallied and presented as  survey results.  In two of the questions in the "Commitment" section, the  2020 survey results showed that 96% of employees were  fully committed to their work and making the Company  better while 95% of employees were willing to continue  to work for TSMC and grow with the Company in the  next five years. The aforementioned questions are "8. I  am willing to commit fully in my work to make TSMC an  even more successful company." and "10. For the next  5 years, I am willing to contribute my talents to TSMC  and grow together with the Company. "Survey results  for the" Commitment "section reached the 95% target  previously set. Note: In 2020, WaferTech was included in the survey scope for the first time. VisEra  was not included in the survey due to its different industrial background Provide diverse learning resources  and channels to encourage self- learning among employees.  This will enhance individual  performance and potential ▪Self-learning accounted for 64.4% of learning  programs designed for the specific needs of  organizations The 2030 sustainable development goal of Talent  Development at TSMC is aimed at ensuring that  employee skillsets remain relevant, supporting long-term  TSMC growth, and promoting lifelong learning among  employees. In the next decade, TSMC will enhance on-the- job training, offer diversified learning resources, and build  comprehensive self-learning programs to promote self- learning among employees, enhance the learning agility  of organizations, and help employees grow. To these  ends, TSMC has formulated the strategy to promote self- learning. Furthermore, since self-learning has accounted  for more than 64.4% of learning programs, the Company is  setting new goals aimed at encouraging employees to take  advantage of online elective courses. In addition, TSMC  has also established a talent development framework and  encourages employees to rotate within the organization  to develop comprehensive capabilities. Promoting self-directed learning is the important strategy  for talent development at TSMC. To facilitate self-learning,  TSMC is dedicated to raising employee awareness on self- learning and encouraging them to use diverse learning  resources and tools. Employees are encouraged to engage  in learning activities that align with the Company's growth,  organizational needs, and personal performance at any  time or place and of any form. Employees should continue  to progress their self-efficacy at work and galvanize energy  for Company growth and social progress. In addition,  TSMC has proactively implemented on-the-job training  and certification systems, allowing employees to learn  and improve their work performance in the workplace.  The Company not only systematically designs job rotation programs to cultivate future talent, but also encourages  its employees to complement their career plans with the  Company's organization development, so as to allow them  to utilize their talents and grow. TSMC offers a comprehensive framework for employee  development, whereby a dual career ladder system  covering both management and technical positions allows  employees to explore their full potential in either of the two  types of positions according to personal characteristics  and skills. For example, the selection process for TSMC  Academy Fellows and Academicians identifies employees  dedicated to scientific research and ensure that they are  unencumbered by managerial tasks so that they can devote  more time to breakthrough research and their fortes.    Furthermore, the promotion system in the employee  development framework is based on two major principles:  transparency on internal vacancies and respect for  employees' transfer decisions. It considers development  potential as an important indicator for evaluating  candidates for promotion. A handbook on promotion  procedures and numerous relevant tools are offered to  managers to help them assess candidate potential.   In 2020, 34.3% of managers and 26.9% of professionals  were transferred or rotated for individual development  or due to organizational development. The Company's  expansion led to an increasing number of new recruits in  2020 and a reduced percentage of only 45.2% vacancies  filled through internal transfers than the previous year.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Provide R&D support and train  personnel for new fabs, offering  training courses on topics such  as process and physics. Help  employees advance their English  skills for the global market and  strengthen employee training and  development to ensure strong  employee capabilities While there is a decrease, TSMC remains dedicated to  internal talent mobility and developing well-rounded  leaders. Therefore, we will continue reinforcing the dual  career ladder system, uncovering employee potential  based on competencies and personal preference, and Employees can continue to grow  or switch between management  positions and technical positions  according to personal aptitude and  organizational needs. Potential career  pathways for a junior-level technical/  project manager can be found below: ensure internal job rotations by maintaining that 50% of  vacancies shall be filled through internal transfers. Our  commitment to internal job rotations is driven by our hope  to meet rising demands from organizational growth but  also a need for personal career development. Established related managerial policies of internal  job position transparency and job transfer  effectiveness among transfer procedures. Helped  managers better understand and implement  regulations via communication 34.3% of managers and 26.9% of professionals  were transferred or rotated due to either individual  or organizational development The Company's growth is inextricably connected to our  employees' personal growth. Self-learning can not only  enhance work performance but also give employees  the opportunity to contribute to social progress in daily  life. TSMC designs employee learning and development  programs based on three key elements: goal, plan, and  discipline. The Company is committed to building a  diverse and equal learning environment that encourages Note: Due to the design differences between training systems, the average evaluation score excluded data from TSMC North America. continuous learning and offers rich content. It has also  formulated the TSMC Employee Training and Education  Procedures to integrate internal and external resources,  enhance employee capabilities, and help employees and  Company grow with society.  TSMC's employees set individual development plans  according to personal requirements, mid-year and year- end performance review, and career development goals.  The individual development plans form one of the bases on  which the Company's annual training program is designed.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society To ensure the effectiveness of training programs, TSMC  measures the outcome with four levels of evaluation- reaction, learning, behavior, and results-based on the  theory proposed by American scholar Donald L. Kirkpatrick.  In 2020, employee performance assessment registered a  completion rate of 100%. In the same year, TSMC provided  over 920,000 hours of training programs and activities for  learning and development to over 1 million participants.  Each employee received, on average, over 16 hours of  training and training expenses exceeded NT$95 million. 6.9 9.2 5.9 16.9 7.4 5.7 15.1 5.4 5.6 In 2020, all open courses were evaluated on the reaction  level, including contents, instructor, administration,  and satisfaction scores. The courses received an overall  satisfaction score of 94 (the total score is 100). A total of  850,000 participants completed 3,500 online courses and  learning evaluations. 8% of the training courses were further  evaluated on the behavioral level. Most on-the-job training  offered by internal organizations were further evaluated  at the learning and behavioral level, and evaluations at the  results level have been built into the employee performance  management and development system. 8.4 8.9 19.0 21.0 To continue targeting the strategy of promoting self-learning, TSMC is assisting employees in advancing their studies in their professional domain while extending their reach to other domains. To reach to this goal, TSMC is offering self- learning resources for employees to learn at any time and place. 6,500 Visits to Self-learning Bar  Mobile Learning Application  E-Learning 2.0 1.  > 95% employees complete trainings  2. 100% passing rate in post-class  (penalty: > NT$1 million) TSMC believes that respecting human rights and  creating a respectful workplace is critical to TSMC and  our suppliers. To ensure comprehensive human rights  actions, TSMC formulated the Human Rights Policy in 2020. Human Rights Policy is the highest guiding principle  for planning, execution, review, and action for all  human rights governance in TSMC. Across all global  sites and facilities, operational supervisors shall  work with senior executives in HR, Information  Technology and Materials Management & Risk  Management, and Legal organization and take charge of human rights topics. VAP Assessment Scores (2021) VAP Assessment Scores (2020) VAP Assessment Scores (2019) VAP Assessment Scores (2016-2018) major human rights topics in TSMC to  management.   will be responsible for human rights topics that have  daily relevance to employees. Regulations should  be formulated and implemented in accordance with  Measures for Human Resources Management System  and the Internal Control Procedures for Human Resource  Management System to ensure that the Company meets  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) or higher standards.  Information Technology and Materials Management  & Risk Management organization will be responsible  for all human rights topics related to suppliers. All  regulations shall be formulated and implemented 95.6  92.6  92.2 91.9  92.2 92.6  92.2 93.5 92.2 92.9  91.8 92.6  - - - - - - - - - - - 200 - 182.4 193.3 In 2020, TSMC provided employees with a total of 93,822  hours of human rights protection training. In total, 55,031  employees (107,057 training attendances) completed the  training program, accounting for 96.8% of TSMC's total  employees. Going forward, TSMC will continue to focus  on human rights protection and offer training programs  to raise human rights awareness among employees to minimize risks. in compliance with the TSMC's Supplier Code of  Conduct to ensure proper supplier management. 93.9 93.2 95.2 90.9 - - - - Responding to customer demand, TSMC conducted VAP  audits on Fab 12b in 2020. The complete audit report will  be made available to customers on RBA-Online in 2021. with the RBA Code of Conduct to ensure that TSMC  either meets or exceeds the standard. Using RBA's self- assessment questionnaire (SAQ), TSMC conducts annual  assessments to identify internal operations bearing the  highest social, environmental, and moral hazards.  Between 2016 and 2018, TSMC commissioned a third- party institute trained in social and environmental audit  to conduct RBA's Validated Assessment Program (VAP)  on all fabs in addition to TSMC's annual SAQ assessment.  Of the 16 fabs assessed, 14 fabs received full marks  Note . - 90.3 93.2 91.3 89.3 - - - 196.5 ▪Provide compensatory leave and subsidies according  to laws and regulations   ▪Make necessary position or work station changes  depending on the situation. For severe cases, the  offender will be punished according to the TSMC  Employee Reward and Punishment Measures ▪Indigenous peoples, women, migrant  workers, contract employees, disabled  workers , etc. ▪Comply with the regulations on freely chosen  employment in the RBA Code of Conduct    ▪Establish Recruitment & Hiring Measures to de- clare that TSMC does not employ forced labor and  employees under the age of 18. The Company will  also detail employee rights, duties, and benefits  in the Offer Letter to maintain fair and transparent  employment relations ▪Conduct questionnaires to make  improvements in the future   ▪Move up the date to draw lots for the  use of child care facilities. This will allow  those who did not draw a slot to have  adequate time to find other child care  facilities   ▪Offer competitive compensation and  benefits to kindergarten teachers TSMC values employee opinions/interests and therefore  offers several communication channels. The highest- level executives of the HR organization are responsible  for many of the channels, ensuring that matters are  handled in an efficient and confidential manner as we  continue to strive towards an open and transparent  environment for employees/managers and colleagues to  communicate. Furthermore, TSMC respects employees'  right to take part in collective bargaining and peaceful  rallies. In accordance with legal requirements in Taiwan,  the Company regularly holds labor-management  meetings to brief employees on Company operations  and invite employees to engage in discussions on labor  conditions and benefits. To facilitate labor-management  communication, after the labor representative's four- year term was up in 2018, fabs in the Central Taiwan  Science Park adopted an e-voting system for the election  of new labor representatives. The e-voting system  was expanded in 2019 to Longtan facilities and in 2020  to Hsinchu and Tainan facilities to encourage more  employee voting. As of December 31st, 2020, all labor  representative elections in Taiwan facilities have been  conducted through e-voting. In 2020, TSMC's internal communication channels  handled a total of 4,343 cases of employee opinions and  complaints, including 4 through the Sexual Harassment  Investigation Committee, 171 through the Ombudsman  System, 906 through the Employee Opinion Box, 3,192  through the Fab Caring Circle, and 70 cases through  the Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System. All  reported cases have been processed and addressed by  competent organizations. Note: The figures for Ombudsman System, Sexual Harassment Investigation Committee, Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System, and Employee Opinion Box  cover all TSMC facilities, while the figure for Fab Caring Circle covers only TSMC's Taiwan facilities. and Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System were  investigated and reviewed by designated committee  members. Cases reported through the Employee  Opinion Box were handled by responsible persons, who  would then communicate with employees about the  solutions and outcome. Employees can access all internal  communication channels via the internal employee portal. In 2020, there were 2 verified cases of sexual harassment  as confirmed by the Sexual Harassment Investigation  Committee. The perpetrating employees received severe punishments and one was dismissed from the Company.  As both cases involved social software abuse, TSMC has  reinforced the social software section in the 2020 sexual  harassment prevention courses to raise awareness  among employees.  There were 6 violations to business ethics and all involved  employees have been punished in compliance with  Company regulations. The importance of business ethics  continues to be advocated in related courses. In 2020, the  annual business ethics and regulatory compliance training completion rate was 99.72%, with 50,482 employees  having received trainings. Management training  completion rate was 100%, with 5,425 managers having  received trainings. With these effective internal communication channels,  the relationship between the management level and  employees has been harmonious over the years. TSMC  has always respected employee rights to form a labor  union, but so far none have been formed. Note: Cases reported via 113 Caring Hotline and SMS are handled by designated people and directed to other voice channels. Note 1: According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)/ Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any  diseases, injuries, disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases,  vapors, dusts, etc., at the place of duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the  workplace such as falling in the cafeteria or parking lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. Target has been amended  according to new definition. See Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information. ▪Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees < 0.20    ▪Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) < 0.3   ▪Disabling Severity Rate (SR) < 3 ▪ Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees < 0.20  ▪ Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) < 0.4  ▪ Disabling Severity Rate (SR) < 4 ≧ 53%   ▪Incident Rate per 1,000 Employees: 0.311    ▪Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR): 0.42    ▪Disabling Severity Rate (SR): 4 ▪Health Promotion Program Participation Rate: 53.5% Note 2: TSMC continues to have new vendors that are considered as  contractors engaged in high risk operations each year and will  therefore continue to offer assistance in this area. Note 3: Missed target for incident rate per 1,000 employees. For  mitigation measures, please see Safety Performance Index. Target: < 0.20 Target: < 0.45 Target: < 6 In 2020, all TSMC’s fabs in Taiwan received ISO 45001  certifications and, in response to ISO 45001 system  updates, TSMC assisted TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  WaferTech, and VisEra obtain ISO 45001 certifications  to comply with the latest international standards on  occupational safety and health, and to ensure the safety  and health of all TSMC employees. TSMC also established  a Disease Control Committee in response to the COVID-19  pandemic. The committee's purpose is to design  prevention measures based on changing situations, designate isolated working groups of employees and  vendors, and maintain day-to-day operations.  With higher production capacity, the number of  contractors visiting TSMC subsequently set a new  record in 2020, climbing from 32,168 people/day in 2019  to 39,470 people/day. TSMC is now the most visited  semiconductor company in Taiwan. TSMC is committed  to providing a safe workplace for contractors and hopes  that contractors can participate in creating a friendly  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Corporate ESH Division  and healthy workplace. To such ends, TSMC founded the  Editorial Committee comprised of 108 engineers from the  Industrial Safety and Environmental Protection Division.  The Committee categorized and restructured complicated  regulations on environment protection, safety, and heath.  The regulations were compiled and classified based on  the fabrication stage it would impact and the Contractor  ESH Bluebook was issued in March 2020. The bluebook  is an intuitive illustrated reference guide that can help  contractors and inspire our peers to create a safe and healthy workplace across the supply chain. The Contractor  ESH Bluebook has also been updated to comply with  new regulations. TSMC immeditately established Thermal  Hazard Prevention Procedures to comply with the latest  Thermal Hazard Prevention Guide for Outdoor Labor in  High Temperatures. The Procedures are intended to warn  and provide measures to contractors about potential heat  strokes, heat exhaustion, or seizures induced by heat. implemented the following measures and used the Safety  Performance Index (SPI) to track performances for safety  and health measures. The Occupational Safety and  Health Committee at the fab level and at the corporate  level will regularly report safety and health efforts to  labor representatives on a monthly and quarterly basis,  respectively. TSMC believes that people comes first and we strive  to build a humanistic workplace. Each management  level has the responsibility to build a safe and healthy  workplace and we ask employees to comply through  various management systems and regulations.  We continue to improve by observing people, the  environment, and behaviors. Educational training is also  provided to ensure that employees works toward this goal  and thereby propel TSMC into sustainable development. Note 1: A regulation update platform poised to launch at TSMC (China) and TSMC (Nanjing) to  address regulatory discrepancies will be postponed to 2021 due to problems in the setup of  domain firewalls.  Note 2: 2020 Training Statistics. Note 3: Launched interactive online training course on safety and health for new employees. The interactive  video is more fun and effective; over 95% of employees were satisfied with the new training. Compliance Audit    ▪A total of 1,628 cases of failed compliance were raised with internal audits. All cases of failed compliance were corrected within  the designated time ▪Continued to offer safety and health training to employees and contractors. Training records are digitalized for archive to  comply with safety and health regulations and emergency response. Certain operations are considered hazardous and the law  requires qualifications to operate; employees have obtained qualifications for all necessary operations.    ▪Improved Safety and Health Training Courses  Note 3 for new employees. The original on-site course is now designed to be an  online course with on-site lessons to increase training efficiency    ▪100% of employees and contractors have passed Safety and Health Trainings ▪For employees and contractors, TSMC conducted workplace hazard identification, safety and health management plans, job site  analysis, job site observation and operational safety analysis, and health management analysis. All identified risks were classified  into different risk levels for future management, tracking, and monitoring to control, prevent or reduce hazards and risks. Carried  out 28,000 cases of hazard assessment ▪Two new regulations have been added: "Notification of Hazard in Contractor's Work Site Inspection" and "Thermal Hazard  Prevention Guide for Outdoor Labor in High Temperatures." For more details, please refer to the Contractor ESH Bluebook ▪Became first in the industry to deploy all-hazard management in disaster drills. Carried out 195 drills and 75 tabletop  exercises Note6 in 2020    ▪Continued to hold investigative meetings to analyze employee injuries and issued results to all fabs for roll-out in hopes of  reducing occupational accidents    ▪All chemicals were put through safety  assessing processes before use. A total of 259 chemicals were introduced with zero  related incidents Completed Ongoing Note 4: TSMC is committed to building a safety culture that protects employees and the company.  We encourage employees to suggest ways to improve workplace safety. Their suggestions  will then be classified and tracked to control, prevent or reduce hazard and risks.  Note 5: Chemical Management Procedures. Note 6: For more details, please refer to TSMC First to Introduce All-Hazard Management Program. The TSMC Safety Performance Index (SPI) was classified  into four levels and two subtypes—active index and  passive index. The active index encourages employees  to participate in health & safety programs and raise  suggestions for safety improvements while the passive  index shows the number of safety-related failures and  false alarms. In 2020, blue-light indicators were reduced 0.100 0.500 0.400 0.300 0.200 0.000 Note: In 2020, the incident by type per thousands of individuals entered  TSMC included employees from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China),  TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech, and VisEra; and contractors to TSMC fabs in  Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. 0.166 0.028 0.028 Unit: Number of incidents/％ per thousand employees 0.062 0.062 0.042 0.042 0.126 0.081 0.223 0.121 0.010 0.042 0.042 0.114 0.104 Note: In 2020, the incidence rate per thousands of individuals entered TSMC  included employees from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), WaferTech, and VisEra; and contractors to TSMC fabs in  Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. to 70.4% from 88.8% in the previous year while red- light indicators rose by 1% as the number of incidents  grew from 21 in 2019 to 30 in 2020. Upon investigation  with the 3L5W (Three-legged Five Whys) ⊕ tool, we  discovered that the incidents included 11 gas false alarm,  10 personnel injuries, four early warnings for fire false  alarm incidents, four chemical leakages, and one power  outage. The SPI has been declining each year since 2019. 8 0.119 6 0.830 10 0.142 0.257 0.311 As such, TSMC will issue safety culture questionnaires to  a number of fabs in 2021 to identify matters that can be  improved. The questionnaire results are expected to be  analyzed in 2022 and we will be able to gain insight into the  efficacy of previous mitigation measures. Note 2: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, WaferTech, TSMC (China), TSMC  (Nanjing), and VisEra. 4.2 4.8 3.0 3.0 5.0 4.3 5.6 88.8 9.1 70.4 12.8 15.8 1.0 There were four chemical spills in 2020, mainly caused by damaged or loose components. Mitigation measures were to strengthen how chemical pipelines are  secured to prevent the joints from loosening due to vibrations; TSMC is also inspecting critical valves on the chemical pipelines daily to ensure early failure detection  Reduce Chemical Leakage In the seven personnel injury cases, six were extremity fractures  from falling while walking and were confirmed to be non- work-related; one was from ladder misuse during machine  maintenance and TSMC has responded by establishing a  Safety Management Procedures for All Workplace Machines In 2020, TSMC contractors were engaged in 28,758 high-risk  tasks each day. There were three contractor injuries in 2020  from noncompliance to on-site procedures, top-heavy tools  that were not corrected, and lack of safety training before  operations In 11 cases of early warnings, the special gases were turned  off immediately after the warning signals. The gases were  then channeled to treatment facilities through wind ducts  and therefore there were no actual gas leaks, personnel  injuries, or pollution to the environment. Causes of the  early warnings were analyzed and TSMC will work towards  standardization, automation, and employee training The early warning fire alarm system was triggered four times in 2020; of which one was caused by cast resin transformers, a significant improvement from 2018  after the special project to prevent faults in cast resin transformers was launched. Other events were standalone events that involved lithium batteries, lightning  conductors, etc. and all of which have been corrected There was one power outage in 2020. The mitigation measure was to send power equipment to Taipower for review,  expand relay settings, and monitor electricity load in real-time ▪All ladders must be inspected during entry. After inspections, the ladder will be labeled with "Notice (CH/ EN)" and "Ladder Sign"    ▪Set specific requirements on the width, depth, and rung spacing of all ladders. Employees shall not  stand on their tiptoe or on one foot when on ladders; the ladders must be placed on a smooth surface,  employees shall not place other surfaces on top of ladders to use as a platform, and employees shall not  engage in any work that requires large, drastic movements on ladders ▪Issued On-site Health, Safety and Hazard Notices to remind contractors to be aware of safety and health  items. TSMC project leads must now accompany contractors entering high-risk areas. Anyone entering the  3.5 floor/ceiling, must apply for a Ceiling Work Permit   ▪Added Procedures for the Identification of Hard-to-Move Machines to list top-heavy machines that have a  high risk of toppling over and mitigation measures during construction meetings    ▪Integrated Contractor Management with Access Control Systems; vendors that have not completed TSMC  safety and health training will not be allowed onto the premise ▪Define replacement procedures for special gas cylinders and introduce standard processes for  pressurizing special gases and checking for helium leaks into the management procedures    ▪Install safety device that automatically determines gas cylinder pressure. Any gas cylinders that fail  to meet standards will not be issued to the production line. This helps reduce the risk of human error   ▪When replacing gases, workers should wear video transmission equipment that sends on-site  videos to the Emergency Response Center and the FMCS to ensure workplace safety during high-risk  operations The definition for occupational accidents is in accordance  with the Occupational Safety and Health Act and  important disabling injury indicators issued by the Global  Reporting Initiative which uses Disabling Severity Rate  (SR) and Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) as primary  indicators. In 2020, TSMC reviewed the Occupational  Safety and Health Act stipulating that only work-related  injuries shall be counted towards SR/ FR. Other non-work  injuries such as falling in the cafeteria or parking lot due to  other reasons shall not be counted towards occupational  injuries but should be investigated and resolved.  Employee vacation, medical insurance, and insurance  shall remain the same. Note 1: According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)/ Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any diseases, injuries,  disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases, vapors, dust, etc., at the place of  duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the workplace such as falling in the cafeteria or parking  lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. The table above details data from the past 5 years based on the new definition.  Note 2: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra. 25 0.29 0.35 0.47 0.52 0.42 Note: Please refer to "Improvement Highlights in 2020" for details of falling. In 2020, there were 43 disabling injuries among  employees with 422 working days lost. Of the 43  disabling injuries, 29 were from men with 308 working  days lost and 14 were from women with 114 working  days lost. Men suffered from a higher number of work- related disabling injuries and working days lost than  women did. Aside from falling  Note, the main causes  were crushing injuries, cuts, scrapes, and punctures  during maintenance. In 2020, the majority of female injuries were from falling  or collisions that mainly occurred while transporting  cleanroom trolleys at 6-inch and 8-inch fabs. Implemented LOTO (Lock out  Tag out) measures that require  employees to lock out and tag  out all moving parts during  maintenance. In 2020, 2,577  operations were completed  and added to the Maintenance  Procedures Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  and VisEra..  Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing),  and VisEra.  Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate by Gender  Disabling Severity Rate by Gender 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 0.51 0.16 0.67 0.43 0.53 Used preventative equipment  while using or turning off  valves on gas-powered devices  and fool-proofing equipment  to prevent injuries during  operations. The Industrial Safety  and Environmental Protection  Department will also conduct  sporadic inspections daily to  increase alertness 0.49 0.58 0.45 0.37 Established certifications for  operators and supervisors.  Uncertified employees will not  be allowed to operate on the  equipment. Training records  and operation application  records will be linked; to  protect employees, untrained  employees will not be allowed to  apply to operate In 2020, TSMC experienced 37 non-work-related injuries. Falling accounted for the highest percentage with 24 cases, resulting in a loss of 485 working days. 19% 12.6%  34.9% 11.6% 5%  4.3% 23.9% 7%  11.6% 18.6% 35.2%  16.3%  10.3%  10.3% 13.8% 41.4% 17.3% 6.9% 11.4% 5.2% 37% 26% 5.5% 14.9% 28.6% 7.1% 21.5% 7.1% 35.7% 15.8% 48.2% 3.5% 1.8% 30.7% 4.9% 2.4% 2.4% 61% 17.1% 12.2% Ergonomic Injuries Sports injury Cut, scrape,puncture Others TSMC's ESH Center of Facility Academy. Work-related diseases and personal health issues  undermine productivity and may significantly  impact the Company's operation. A comprehensive  health management plan identifies health risks in  the workplace, takes responsive measures, prevents  occupational diseases, and promotes physical and  mental health among employees. health, TSMC has been committed to building a safe and  healthy workplace where each work item is assessed  with risk identification to uncover five major potential  risks, including chemical, physical, ergonomic, biological,  and social/psychological, and to design preventive  measures accordingly. In 2020, TSMC continued to work  with Professor Peng-Chi Tsai from National Cheng Kung  University to monitor chemical workstations and analyze  results.  In January 2020, in response to the global COVID-19  pandemic, TSMC established the Disease Control  Committee and set up a real-time disease control section  on the Company's internal website so employees have  immediate access to the latest updates and measures. ▪6 on-site visits from occupational physicians with 2 feedbacks, including annual  employee training, and redesign of poorly designed handles, etc. All necessary  changes were made with a 100% completion rate   ▪Computerized assessments were conducted on 10 employees with above- average height. Office chairs were raised and foot mats were provided to  maximize comfort levels. Target employee satisfaction rate stood at 100% ▪185 employees were impacted by soreness and participated in the ergonomic  risk exposure survey. Upon assessment from occupational physicians, 7 of these  185 employees were suspected to be impacted by ergonomic risk factors and  received support in the form of adjusted work duties ▪Employees affected by soreness were cross-checked with the computerized  ergonomic risk assessment system. None were found to be working in areas or  potential areas of ergonomic risks ▪Conduct employee health risk assessment and divide into different  levels for management after annual checkups. Health information  and medical support are also provided ▪The number of  employees under current management has  grown to 2,738. TSMC has taken advice from the occupational  physician to inform the employees, employee’s supervisor, and HR  representatives to adjust the employees’ workload to reduce risks of  cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases In 2020, in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic,  TSMC established the TSMC Disease Control  Committee with members from the Corporate  Environment Safety Health Division, HR, Operations,  Materials Management, Customer Service, Public  Relations, and offshore subsidiaries. The Senior Vice  President of Information Technology and Materials  Management & Risk Management is the commander  for disease prevention and is responsible for disease  prevention/control measures and emergency  response; taking stock of required labor and resources  and allocating accordingly; and making necessary  announcements on disease prevention/control  measures in TSMC. The Corporate Environment  Safety Health Division Director is the executive  secretary of the committee, responsible for gathering  and compiling local disease prevention policies from  regions where TSMC has fabs or subsidiaries; follow  up on domestic and overseas situations and suggest  disease prevention measures to the commander;  work with the Wellness Center for the high-risk  employee list; and establish the Disease Prevention  Guidelines for TSMC. All TSMC fabs in Taiwan,  domestic subsidiaries, and offshore subsidiaries were  required to adhere to relevant disease prevention/ control measures to ensure effective control over the  pandemic, guarantee employee safety, and maintain  day-to-day operations.  Case Study Through cloud services,  TSMC has developed a body  temperature feedback system  with smartphone IM functions  for all personnel entering  the Company. The system  is connected to the ACS  and can effectively manage  entry authorizations for high- risk personnel. Every day,  the cloud controller reports  suspicious temperatures to  prevent high-risk personnel  from entering TSMC. People are required to wash hands,  check body temperatures, and  confirm identity when entering  TSMC. Everyone must report body  temperatures, complete the Health  Declaration Form, wear masks  in public spaces, maintain a safe  social distance, and comply with  strict dining rules. TSMC has established a comprehensive investigation process and emergency response structure with defined roles according to the company's Disease Prevention Guidelines. In  2020, TSMC had one confirmed COVID-19 case and immediately organized an emergency response team within an hour to investigate the confirmed case. In addition to guidelines  from the National Health Command Center (NHCC), TSMC has initiated additional quarantine measures for an expanded list of contacts and disinfected workstations. TSMC also  offered support to the employee confirmed to have Covid-19 and his/her contacts for medical follow-ups, COVID-19 related health measures, and assistance in daily life. Washing Hands. Body Temperature Check  before Entering TSMC. ID Check before  Entering TSMC.  Automatically Restrict Access for  High-risk Personnel Disease Control - Entry  Authorization Management System Access Control  System Wear Masks in All Public  Areas. Scattered Seating  Arrangement for  Mealtimes.  Automatically  import high-risk  personnel lis Signs on the Table  Remind Employees/ Contractors that Tables &  Chaires Should Remain in  the Same Position and No  Talking While Eating. Severity TSMC's occupational health risk management plan covers both occupational hazards and personal health,  which need to be improved to protect employees’health. Employees with high perceived stress levels  were offered psycological counseling. High Stress Support Plan 1,245 A  total of 9,882 employees received moderately  and highly abnormal health check results, and  all of them were closely monitored. Employees who were absent for more than  four days due to musculoskeletal pain were  assessed to determine whether adjustments  to work were necessary. In compliance with the Respiratory Protection Program  and Management Guidelines, TSMC is conducting medical  evaluations to determine respiratory protection needs. Mid/high risk employees will receive medical  assistance and work hour management. In accordance with legal regulations on occupational  safety and health, all employees involved in operations  with special health examination, a total of 4,753  individuals, completed special health examinations. Offer employees a supportive environment and a variety of health care programs to maintain employee health. Employees are encouraged to exercise regularly. TSMC Sports Centers and all TSMC facilities come with gyms, aerobics classrooms, and  multifunctional ball courts to provide employees with a supportive environment and multiple options for exercise. The services, including  swimming pools, yoga classes, and spinning bike classes, can be accessed by employees and their dependents. TSMC has a long-term partnership with professional psychologists, lawyers, and accountants to provide employees with free consulting  services and help employees deal with stress and mental issues. Joined events such as online Health Speeches, Health Quiz, Healthy Diet Tips, and  Weight Control Competition. Health Promotion Programs were taken online or  e-Learning in consideration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Interactive online Speeches  welcomed twice as many participants as  traditional lectures did in the past. Through  sharing real-life case studies. TSMC urged employees to make lifestyle changes As a leader in the global semiconductor industry,  TSMC exerts an ever-greater influence on societies and  industries. Therefore, TSMC recognizes its obligations in  creating a healthy workplace together with its vendors  and contractors. In the first half of 2020, TSMC reduced  and restricted face-to-face exchanges with outside  parties to share our experience in safety and health.  When the pandemic eased in the second half of the year,  TSMC reinitiated training and consultations. We worked  with our business partners, the industry, the government,  academia, and all of society to reduce safety and health  risks from vendors and contractors. 161 Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  Note: Figures from TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), and VisEra.  Safety and health Training  On-site contractors exposed to chemicals are trained to use protective gear  On-site contractors exposed to chemicals shall attend the annual emergency drill TSMC regularly attends the Joint Steering Committee  ESH Working Group of the World Semiconductor Council  on behalf of the Taiwan semiconductor industry to  conduct exchanges with overseas peers on occupational  safety and health. In 2020, the ESH Working Group was  held online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The  goal was to share experiences on managing a safe and  healthy workplace while eliminating the risk that comes  with public gatherings. Contractors under high risk of chemical exposure were  identified through analyses on risks of chemical exposures  and the frequency and nature of their operations. 3% of  contractors were identified as high risk bearers, and TSMC  has been committed to reducing their risk of occupational  diseases from chemical exposure. In 2020, contractors  registered lower Disabling Injuries Frequency Rate (FR)  and Disabling Severity Rate (SR) than those of the previous  year, but there were still three vendors that suffered from  occupational accidents on TSMC fabs. The accidents  resulted in a loss of 262  working days. For mitigation  measures, please see Improvement Highlights. 0.03 0.03 2 0.07 5 0.10 TSMC demonstrated the operation and maintenance of the fire  extinguishing system. TSMC is committed to creating a better workplace  environment and therefore launched the On-Site  Supplier Support Program in 2020 to support on- site supplier working at entry-level positions in  Taiwan fabs. In addition to minimum wage and  legal work hour guarantees, TSMC is planning  a 2-stage workplace upgrade program that will  benefit 7,000 people. In 2020, TSMC interviewed cleaning staff, cafeteria  staff, and security service staff to gain more insight  into their daily work and subsequently outlined  ways to improve their work situations as part of  the Support Program. As of now, TSMC has added  rest areas, made communication tools accessible,  and ensured health check-ups in all employees. In  2021, TSMC will commence the second stage of the  support program to target tank truck drivers and  truck drivers. We are looking to create a friendly  supplier workplace by improving their workflows  and offering better workplaces/facilities. To ensure construction workers' safety during fab construction,  TSMC is working with contractors to build a safe construction  site and strengthen safety management organizations of  the construction sites. Contractors, construction site safety  committee, and TSMC are working together in a three-level  management system to guarantee safety on construction  sites.  In 2020, TSMC invited senior executives from third- level contractor companies to participate in the TSMC  Construction Contractor Worksite Safety Symposium in an effort to strengthen their resolve in construction site safety  management. During the meeting, all parties signed the  Declaration of Construction Site Safety and invited a team of  outside experts to improve safety awareness and knowledge  in frontline safety supervisors. The experts offered insight into  the three main stages of risk identification, safety oversight,  and inspections. Based on risk identifications, the experts  then offered suggestions to each contractor to help build a  more robust safety management system. TSMC regularly works with 5 civil engineering contractors  and 3 steel structure contractors that engage in a higher  percentage of high-risk operations. To ensure safety of the  construction sites, TSMC invited outside experts in 2020 to conduct a 3-month, high-intensity on-site evaluation. The  results and recommendations are provided to the responsible  unit for future improvements. Construction site safety failures  were compiled into training materials based on operations,  techniques, and regulations. A three-hour training was then  held at a Construction Office; 300 frontline safety personnel  and supervisors attended.  Beginning in 2021, TSMC will strengthen control measures on  openings to reduce risks of construction workers falling into  floor holes. During the same time, TSMC will also launch the  Contractor Self-Management Program for Construction Safety  that requires the contractor's environmental protection and Construction Safety Committee   ▪Supervisor   ▪Construction Safety Engineer   ▪Environmental Safety Engineer   ▪Electricity Use Engineer safety unit to conduct monthly site inspections. Any issues and  changes will be reported to senior executives in the contractor  company but TSMC will also request reports from time to time  to ensure compliance. Quarterly safety meetings are held for  civil engineering contractors and steel structure contractors  with high occupational accident rates. Senior executives from  contractors are required to explain safety performances of the  quarter, mitigation measures, and prevention measures. By  engaging senior executives and getting them to pay attention  to construction site safety, TSMC is introducing a top-down  safety management system in construction sites. In the event  of accidents, TSMC may suspend or terminate contracts  depending on the severity of the situation. ▪Increased professionalism and trainings of  construction safety officers. Construction workers  were required to receive construction site safety  trainings before getting work permits Power to Change Society Based in Taiwan, TSMC has flourished with support from all sectors of society. TSMC  believes that giving back to the community has been critical to our success. We've been  caring for the disadvantaged, helping youth education, supporting arts and culture  through the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation and TSMC Charity Foundation to  give back and create common values. The Drive for Common Good P.166 TSMC Education and Culture Foundation P.167 TSMC Charity Foundation P.176 80.55 Overview ESG Feature Stories Sustainable Business Practice Operations and Governance Appendix 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report ▪Provide online teaching materials, donate high-tech  machines and empower teachers with digital ability   ▪Have computer programing and AI courses as well as  camps to promote science education.   ▪Promote vocational education with governments Foundation After School Class Project   ▪Hope Reading 2.0 Note: Social contributions include related activities from TSMC (University  Cooperation Program), TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, TSMC Charity  Foundation and TSMC staff (volunteer service, charity donation), and TSMC  Welfare Committee. common good. The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  strives to cultivate youths, and promotes diversified  education by focusing on education for disadvantaged 49.5% Charitable Donations  13.4% Community Investments  37.1% Commercial Initiatives youth and providing students with various platforms How We Contributed Motive for Contribution outside of the formal education system. TSMC is also  growing the seed of love for the arts in society to  work towards the goal of SDG 4—Quality Education.  Moreover, the TSMC Charity Foundation is  committed to long-term volunteer service. In order  to achieve the targets of SDG 1, 3, and 4, which  cover No Poverty, Good Health and Well-being,  and Quality Education, respectively, the charity  foundation serves the disadvantaged as well as  elder people living alone, and promotes filial  piety and environmental protection. 76.4% In-kind Giving 2.6% Management Overheads (NT$)  11.0% Cash Contribution 10.0% Time To fulfill TSMC Company's corporate social responsibility,  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, established  in 1998, contributed NT$99.85 million in 2020 into  3 engagements: "Cultivate Young Generation",  "Educational Collaboration", and "Promote Arts and  Culture". The Foundation worked hand-in-hand with  educational organizations  from both the public and  private sectors to care for young generation and hope to  cultivate well-rounded talents in this new era; through Year various competitions and popular science education  programs, the Foundation endeavored to lead youths  toward self-exploration and pursuit of their dreams. The  Foundation also held cultural events and sponsored  local art groups to contribute to the community as well  as enrich the public's appreciation for the arts. Contributed Total Amount  NT$ 99.85 million For further information about the events and the sponsorships,  please refer to the official website of the TSMC Education and  Culture Foundation. Due to the absence of literary, aesthetics,  science, and self-exploration curriculum in the  current high school and higher education, young  students lack the opportunities to dig out and  embody their talents. In 2020, the Foundation contributed a total of  NT$40.86 million to hold various competitions,  camps, lectures to inspire students' interest in  science and the humanities as well as to lead them  toward self-exploration and pursuit of their dreams. of Integrated Circuit to the National Museum of  Natural Science in 1997. In 2002 and 2011, TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation again sponsored  the renovation of the exhibition hall. The exhibition  hall, renamed The World of Semiconductors in 2011,  general public to learn about the IC industry, and  to cultivate future semiconductor talents, the  Foundation sponsored the exhibition hall The World "I'm grateful for having the opportunity to give back to  society after retirement. Volunteering at the National  Museum of Natural Science has given profound  meaning to my retirement." keeps providing knowledge on semiconductors to  visitors since then. In order to update the contents of  the exhibition to keep up with the rapid advancement  of technology, the Foundation organized the third  renovation, and The World of Semiconductors  exhibition hall officially opened in August 2020. > NT$40.86 million was contributed for popular  science education —Ming-Chieh Guan, TSMC retiree & exhibition volunteer  The new exhibition hall features five major sections:  Discovery, Application, Progress, Innovation, and  Imagination. With the latest interactive display and AR  technique the exhibits lead the general public to realize  the science knowledge of semiconductors as well as the  prospect and history of the industry. The tour services  at the exhibition hall are provided by volunteers from  the TSMC Charity Foundation, encouraging TSMC  retirees to take part in the volunteer program. Along  with the exhibitions, the TSMC volunteers continued to  contribute to the society by sharing the knowledge in  the semiconductors. To inspire female students' interest in semiconductors,  in 2020, the Foundation held five Female Scientists  lectures for five girls' senior schools, 200 female students  in total, at National Museum of Natural Science. Apart  from having female employees from TSMC to provide  tour services, acclaimed female scientists, such as  Physics Professor Ming-Feng Tai form National Tsing Hua  University etc. were invited to share their trajectories of  study and careers. The Foundation hope that the tour  could inspire female students to unlock their potential  and then embark on the study of science. The Foundation  will extensively invite 12 girls' senior schools to join in the  tour in 2021.    "There is no gender difference when one shines  in their professional field. Women can be equally  accomplished as men." —Participant from Stella Matutina Girls's  High School  Atayal children at the Exploration Theater area. Mark Liu, Chairman of TSMC, Dr. Tseng, Chairman of  TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, and Sophie Chang,  Chairperson of TSMC Charity Foundation, visit the exhibition hall  along with children at the Application of Semiconductors section. TSMC Female Scientist Lectures—Mi-Hua Lin, Deputy Manager  of Research and Development, explains semiconductor  processing to students. Since 2016, the Foundation has been funding TSMC Youth  Dream Building Project, providing an annual 3-million  grant for dream building projects and encouraging  college students to care about social issues, embark on a  journey of self-discovery, and provide creative solutions.  A total of NT$3 million Award is granted to help students  make their dreams come true.  The fifth Youth Dream Building Project was held in 2020.  Apart from inviting students from Taoyuan, Hsinchu,  Miaoli, and Tainan areas to submit their projects, the  competition further invited students from Taichung area  to participate. Under the theme of circular economy,  the competition attracted 102 groups of students from  36 universities to submit their proposals. The proposals  presented by the teams cover various areas in our  society: from creating a popular science column on semiconductors, to a reclaim woods project, to an anti- drug campaign, and to making custom animal prosthetics  for stray dogs. A total of NT$3 million were granted to  eight groups  that were selected into the final round.  In order to resonate better with young people and the  TSMC employees on the theme of "circular economy", the  Foundation initiated a special pilot project of "Aesthetic  Cycle." A special glass recycling machine was set up by the  Foundation at the headquarters of TSMC to encourage  employees to recycle glass waste created from their  daily life. Over a thousand pieces of family glass waste  were collected through the machine in two months. The  project invited Spring Pool Glass and Design Lab led by  Prof. Beatrice Chiang of National Tsing Hua University  to recycle glass waste into recycled bottles and created  an art installation of "Aesthetic Cycle." The installation     "I want to express my gratitude to the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation for putting so much effort in organizing  the activities. 'Care for the Earth through Small Acts' was a successful learning-through-play project. The activities catered  to children's interest and level of literacy, and were able to help children form habits of recycling and waste reduction." Teams selected in the first round of the fifth Youth Dream  Building Project visit TSMC Museum of Innovation. "Aesthetic Cycle" Glass Art Installations, designed by the design team  led by professor Yi-Ying Chiang, Department of Arts and Design, NTHU. displays icons of Taiwanese landscape and signifies  the core concept of "loving nature and respecting the  humanity" and is displayed currently at the square of  TSMC Museum of Innovation.  In addition, the Foundation invited the Daidai Rebag team,  two times winning team from the Youth Dream Building  Project competition, to run a series of environment  protection activities at the TSMC Preschool, not only  through illustrated books reading and game playing to  promote the idea of environmental protection in 2020, but  through repurposing the children's own old clothes into  bags. Hence the children learn how to classify and recycle  waste. The Foundation expects our next generation would  grow to be environmentally friendly through small acts  in everyday life and put the new generation concepts of  environmental education into action.    —Mei-Lan Tsai, Principal of TSMC Preschool Children learned  about recycling at TSMC Preschool. Children at TSMC Preschool transformed used-clothes into  recycle bags. "I'm very grateful that the TSMC Youth Dream Building  Project provided us with the opportunity to pursue  our dreams. The future is unforeseeable, but from this  experience, I have gathered a little bit more of courage  to believe in my dreams and in turn embark on this long,  bumpy journey." Reusable package designed by PackAge Plus. place in the final round of the competition. Through  providing reusable packaging service, PackAge Plus In 2019, the TSMC Education and Culture Foundation  participated in the ATCC Case Competition. PackAge NT$1 million startup funds. PackAge Plus changed the existing e-commerce packaging practices by successfully  producing ten thousand pieces of reusable packaging  in 2020 and it will continuously expand its influence on  environmental sustainability.   endeavors to establish a plastic-free online shopping  reward mechanism and later set up a social enterprise  after the competition. To assist the team in continue  to their dreams and promoting the idea of circular  economy, the Foundation sponsored PackAge Plus Before Becoming an Adult, attracting a total of 831  and Seal-Carving Competition in 2020. Through these  competitions, the Foundation hopes to encourage  young students throw themselves into literature and  calligraphy. The 17 th TSMC Youth Literature Award, with the theme  Youth Literature Award and the 13 th TSMC Calligraphy the course with Department of Chinese Literature. The  Students from Chengyuan High School at Huang Yung-Sheng  Chinese Herbal Medicine Pharmacy. submissions, up 12 percent from the previous year. The  Foundation also organized 4 campus lectures, where  Taiwan's renowned writers shared their abundant writing  experiences and gave guidance to students on writing  techniques and ways of perception. The Foundation also  used social media to raise people's interest in literature.  For instance, the TSMC Youth Literature Facebook Page  gained nearly 14 thousand followers, and an individual  work was shared by over 3 thousand times. In 2020, the theme of 13 th TSMC Calligraphy and Sea- A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Students from Chengyuan High School at Chien-Yuan Chinese  Herbal Medicine Pharmacy. Writer Kenneth Hsien-Yung Pai in a lecture. Dedicated to promoting Chinese Classics, in 2020 the  Foundation initiated its exclusive sponsorship for the Hsien- yung Pai Literature Lecture Series on Dream of the Red  calligraphy. An walking tour event—"Medicine Cures the  Body, Calligraphy Cures the Heart" was organized for the  opening of the competition. The activity invited Chinese  calligraphy artist Mr. Gu Yao-Hua to take students and  teachers to Chinese herbal medicine pharmacies on  Di-hua Street. In addition to learning about traditional  Chinese herbal medicine and tools, the students also  realized the history of these pharmacies as well as  got a chance to appreciate the plaques collection,  prescriptions and vintage accounting books, written by  famous calligraphers. Those events attracted a total of  607 participants. understanding of Chinese culture. The course attracted  over 500 students to enroll, and a limited number of seats  were reserved for students from National Hsin-Chu Senior  High School and National Hsinchu Girls' Senior High School  to audit the lectures. In compliance with the COVID-19  prevention measures, the first three classes lectures were  physical lectures, and the rest 14 lectures were conducted  online. The complete lectures course can be accessed via  NTHU OpenCourseWare and the official website of TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation at viewers' convenience. were guided to appreciate the human nature and sensibility  of Dream of the Red Chamber and to gain a better  course aimed to deepen students' humanistic literacy,  and to give NTNU, a top-notch university in science and  engineering, a more humane touch. The 3-month course,  comprising of 17 lectures, invited Hsien-Yung Pai, a literary  master in Taiwanese Literature, writers, and scholars from  Taiwan and abroad to talk about the classic novel from  their area of research focus—literature, aesthetics, gender,  drama, and modern technology and many more, and share  their perspectives on Dream of the Red Chamber. Students An unequal right to education experienced by  children from underprivileged and skipped- generation families in rural and less accessible  areas due to a lack of digital learning resource  and stable source of diversified and suitable  educational resource. The Foundation has long been caring for  educational issues since its establishment. In  2020, the Foundation contributed NT$39.69  million and collaborated with educational  organizations from both the private and public  sectors, aiming to increase learning motivation  of educationally disadvantaged students, by  providing suitable learning resource to improve  their studies. In addition, in hopes of narrowing  gaps in educational resource, and to response to  the New K-12 Compulsory Education Curriculum,  the Foundation also assisted to develop online  literacy courses and the teacher training  program. Moreover, scholarships were provided  to help lessen disadvantaged college students'  financial burden when pursing higher education. Dedicated to assisting outstanding yet economically  disadvantaged students, the Foundation sponsored NT$7  million to 70 disadvantaged students from five universities  including: Sunrise Program Scholarship (National Tsing  Hua University), Sunflower Program Scholarship (National  Central University), Star Program Scholarship (National  Cheng Kung University), South Star Program Scholarship  (National Sun Yat-sen University). Chia Star Program  Scholarship (National Chung Cheng University) in 2020.  The scholarship programs ease students' financial burden, Sunflower Program  Scholarship at  National Central  University Star Program  Scholarship at  National Cheng  Kung University Chia Star Program  Scholarship at  National Chung  Cheng University to strengthen the equality of  educational right > NT$ 39.69 million "It was heartwarming to have received a laptop computer. I  never thought I could be using the kind of laptop computer  my classmates are using. I would like to thank the TSMC  Education and Culture Foundation for helping me." offer life and academic support, and help students focus  in school. In 2020, for the first time, the Foundation  provided 25 scholarship freshman recipients with a laptop  computer each to assist them in educational needs. As many schools around Taiwan couldn't get facilities that  can take multiple body temperature simultaneously, and  in turn worried that students would be affected by such  pandemic prevention and control loophole, the Foundation  contacted the Ministry of Education and donated 100  thermal imagers. The imagers were distributed to 25  universities, 45 high schools, and one junior school, and  were prioritized for usage in 3 large-scale examinations— the Comprehensive Assessment Program for Junior  High School Students, TVE (Technological & Vocational  Education) Joint College Entrance Examinations, and  College Advanced Subject Test, to increase efficiency in  body temperature monitoring of test students. Chang, Recipient of Sunrise Program Scholarship The Foundation has long been caring for rural education  in Taiwan. In 2020, the Foundation joined hands with  the Cheng Zhi Foundation to realize a shared vision of  providing rural areas with equal access to education  resource. A three-year education funding sponsorship  was provided to Emei Junior High School, the first  KIST (Knowledge-Is-Power-Program Inspired Schools  in Taiwan, KIST) school to give students a more equal Students and faculty were invited to "NSO Chamber Concerts—Ray & Friends" (jointly performed by the internationally acclaimed  violinist Ray Chen and the National Symphony Orchestra at the National Concert Hall) to enhance student' music literacy. Students explained the art of making tea to Ray Chen. An exchange on music and culture, titled "Music Teacher of the  Day": Ray Chen was invited to be the Music Teacher of the Day at  Emei Junior High School to share his love and appreciation for  music to students and in return, culture exchanged by students. Music appreciation session, "A Guide to Vivaldi's The Four  Seasons", was arranged to introduce students to the world of  classical music. As the New K-12 Compulsory Education Curriculum  took effect in 2019, the Foundation launched a media  survey with the United Daily News-Vision Project in  the same year, targeting teachers and students from  1,500 junior and senior high schools to understand  teache's needs in three areas: teacher qualification,  teaching materials, and classroom hardware and  software facilities. Survey results were then used as the  basis for "Critical Thinking Ability Training", the online  literacy course jointly designed by the Foundation and  the Junyi Academy Foundation. The online course has  reached more than 120 thousand views with a video  completion rate of 90 percent by December, 2020. In the  meantime, to familiarize teachers with course content,  right to education in Hsinchu area. The Foundation also  organized music education courses to cultivate the  students' art appreciation. Junyi Digital Education Platform   Program 2.0 teaching material and teaching method, 26 workshops  involving 518 teachers in total were held. In addition,  the Foundation also collaborated with 3 after-school  classes for the disadvantaged in holding 5 workshops  titled "Critical Thinking Teaching Workshop", where  students were taught to cultivate critical thinking. "Thanks to the TSMC Education and Culture  Foundation's joint effort in driving Taiwan's education  technology development, and children are able to  grow and improve in their learning process." —an excerpt from Junyi Academy Foundation 2020 Winter Issue Taiwan local art groups, without sufficient  resources in common, need more stages to  perform and support from public; meanwhile,  impacted by internet entertainment media,  traditional arts and culture inheritance both face  critical challenges. In 2020, the Foundation planned to contribute  NT$37 million to organize high-quality arts and  culture exhibitions and performances to support  art groups. Due to the impact from COVID-19,  however, many exhibitions and activities were  canceled under such concerns. As the pandemic  showed signs of slowing down in the second half  of 2020, the Foundation contributed NT$7.23  million to sponsorships of arts education  programs and online streaming program. With the  help of technology, the Foundation could be able  to continue and to expand the promotion of arts. Note: Data accumulated from 1998 to 2020. The TSMC Foundation has been holding the Hsin-Chu  Art Festival for 17 consecutive years since 2003, with a  different theme for each year. Major art events are held  regularly in Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan to lead the  public experience the beauty of arts. In 2020, in response  to the government's Covid-19 precaution regulations,  the Foundation had to cancel the art festival. As the  pandemic showed signs of slowing down in the second  half of the year, two concerts were held and livestreamed,  enabling art to reach wider corners during the pandemic. The TSMC Education and Culture Foundation initiated the  NSO Music Educational Program together with National  Symphony Orchestra (NSO) and Public Television Service  (PTS). The program invited Ray Chen, a world-class Chinese  violinist, to host a master class at the National Concert Hall,  so that students in Taiwan had the opportunity to broaden  their horizons in music. The master class was live-streamed  globally with the help of technology, benefiting music  students that couldn't attend classes in person. The online  program has attracted 73,000 views. "The world has changed because of the pandemic,  and we wanted to do something a little different. We're  really grateful for the sponsorship and support the  TSMC Education and Culture has given to Ray Chen' s  Master Classes. Such support enabled us to present  the strength and beauty of music through the high  resolution technology, and deliver the performing arts  to a wider audience." —Wen-Chen Kuo, Executive Director of NSO of Comfort and Hope, featuring celloist Yo-Yo Ma and  pianist Kathyrn Stott. The first concert was held at  Tainan, where one of TSMC Fab sites is located. A total of  1,600 music fans were attracted to the concert to enjoy  these two world-renowned masters' performance. Recital Concert "Songs of Comfort and Hope". The Foundation sponsored the concert tour Songs Professor Yi-Yun Xin at the Press conference of the Audio Books-  Professor Xin Explains Laozi Lecturer Dr. Ming-Ke Wang, Academician of Academia Sinica Group photo taken at 2020 16 Years Old Festival press conference. The Foundation has long been devoted to promotion  and revitalization of the Chinese Classics Literature, and  has sponsored Professor Yi-Yun Xin' s production of radio  program series "Chinese Classic" for 10 consecutive years.  In 2020, Professor Xin recorded and aired the 52 episodes  of "Professor Xin Explains the Book of Songs", reaching  a total of 800 thousand audience. In the same year, published and donated to 130 high schools in Taiwan,  hoping more students in Taiwan can be exposed to such  content. Furthermore, an accumulated total of 3,000  sets of all published audio book series were donated to  Chinese literature-related departments in 60 universities. Since 2014, the Foundation has held the TSMC Lectures  to promote humanities and philosophy from the East and  the West. In 2020, due to COVID-19's enormous impact  on our lives, the Foundation invited Dr. Ming-Ke Wang, an  Academician of Academia Sinica, to speak on Virus, Anti- Virus, and Witch Hunt: Collective Fear and Violence within  Human Communities from an anthropological perspective  to plow through the origin and cause of fear in different  regions of different periods throughout history. Four  lectures were organized, with a total of 442 participants. The Foundation has sponsored "16 Years Old Festival",  organized by the Cultural Affairs Bureau, Tainan  City Government, for four consecutive years. The  festival derives from the 16-year-old rite of passage, a  traditional ceremony practiced in the Tainan City, and  has been working to establish a platform for youths  to participate in arts and culture events through three  approaches: Plays watching, Plays production, and  Plays acting. The festival is open to registration for youth with an age from 16 to 18 , who are interested  in art performance and hope to express themselves  through performing. Each year, the "16 Years Old Festival" selects 50 youths  as participants, and as of 2020, over 30 participants have  chosen drama and theater related majors in university.  In 2020, the Festival was themed "Tshut Thuat" (to be  a promising youth), and had attracted more than 1,000  participants to the performances, interactive lectures,  workshops, Youths Act in Plays Project, and Assistant in  black dress (volunteering work at the Festival). We aim to reduce waste through the  Cherish Food Program. We also promote  environmental protection and energy  conservation through our energy- saving volunteers, eco-volunteers, and  corporate volunteers Note1: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteer activities were suspended in accordance with related polices in the first half of 2020. Note2: The amount includes donations from TSMC volunteers and the Sending Love Forward project. These are cash donations, excluding goods donation, repair services or other donations. ▪Donated NT$12.1 million to the disadvantaged Note2    ▪The remote education program  helped 3,279 children Note: Including cash donations, goods donation, repair services or other  indirect donations. Since its founding in 2017, the TSMC Charity Foundation  has dedicated itself to four major areas: Caring for the  Disadvantaged, Taking Care of Elder People Living Alone,  Promoting Filial Piety, and Environmental Protection.  In 2020, with Caring for the Disadvantaged as the main  direction, TSMC Foundation also made Education in  Remote Areas and Disadvantaged Aid the primary target,  aiming to create complete plans for remote areas and  help children acquire needed skills in the workplace.  It is hoped that rural flight and talent gap issues could  thereby be addressed. As the COVID-19 pandemic ravaged the world, the  TSMC Charity Foundation called on TSMC's employees  to donate money and industrial-grade protective  equipment to support frontline health workers. The  TSMC Charity Foundation also invited other charity  partners to create a positive force within a society rocked  by the pandemic. Note 1: TSMC has categorized activities into cash, time, and goods & services according to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and then converted all forms of donations into a monetary unit (NT$) in order to calculate their percentage; time = volunteered hours*average  wages; goods & services = the monetary amount of the goods & services donated by TSMC. Note 2: TSMC has categorized donations based on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index into charitable donations, community investments, and commercial initiatives, converting all donations into a monetary amount (NT$) in order to calculate their percentage. Note 3: Volunteers attending activities organized by the TSMC Charity Foundation include TSMC's current, former and retired employees, family members of TSMC employees, and volunteers from cooperative companies. 178 Corporate Activities 3.2% NT$3,820,586 72.7% NT$87,034,341 24.1% NT$28,823,308 Promoting Filial Piety 3.7% NT$4,370,920 12.9% NT$15,392,358 74.9% NT$89,691,216 Caring for the  Disadvantaged 8.5% NT$0,223,741 According to statistics from the Ministry of  Education in 2019, a total of 1,177 schools  are located in remote areas, accounting  for nearly 30% of total schools in Taiwan.  Those schools are facing instability from  turnovers, population migration, and  gaps in educational resources, therein  affecting the children’s right to quality  education. The TSMC Charity Foundation listed  Character Education, Subject-based  Education, and Vocational Education  as the three primary focuses. We  hope to uncover student potential by  providing educational resources based  on their needs. TSMC volunteers are  also collaborating with local schools  that implement University Social  Responsibility (USR) to build confidence  in students and empower them to give  back to their hometowns in the future. Note1: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteer activities were  suspended in accordance with related polices in the first half of 2020. Division of the Legal Organization regularly travels to  Yuandong Elementary School in Hsinchu and utilizes  practical teaching materials and games to trigger  children's interest in learning English. In 2020, reading  volunteers totaled 689 times.   Organization, and Fab 3 utilize online education  resources to help children from Anding Elementary  School in Tainan, Ruei Yuan Elementary School in  Taoyuan, and Meihua Elementary School, Hexing  Elementary School and Taoshan Elementary School  in Hsinchu. In addition, the Corporate & Compliance  Reading volunteers visit eight primary schools in remote  areas of Hsinchu, Taichung, and Tainan every semester  to read stories, teach English and math, and provide  scholarships to motivate students to learn. In 2020,  reading volunteers served a total of 1,012 times and  provided over 5,060 hours of reading service.    TSMC supports the Junyi Academy through regular  employee donations to strive towards education  equality. Volunteers from the Advanced Packaging  Technology and Service Organization, Product  Development Organization, Quality and Reliability  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer Note 2: Refer to Promoting Filial Piety to learn more about filial piety event of Character multicultural education. Legal Organization utilized practical teaching materials to trigger  children's interest in learning English. Volunteers with background in photography from Fab 2  and Fab 5 are long-term volunteers to Yufeng Elementary  School and Shilei Elementary School in Hsinchu  County, teaching photography, holding exhibitions,  and encouraging students to participate in national  photography competitions to boost their confidence.   A total of 224 children have benefitted from this program.  In 2020, volunteers started teaching children how to use  drones to record their lives and beautiful surroundings. Fab 14 cooperates with the Junyi Academy (which has  continued to advocate for education in remote areas)  and Teach for Taiwan to co-host charity concerts.  The net profit of the 2 concerts held last year, which  attracted 5,232 people, has been applied to foundation Fab 14 cooperated with education organizations to co-host  charity concerts. operations. Fab 2 and Fab 5 supported Holy Family for  Special Education by inviting their team to perform at  TSMC year-end parties and offering them a platform to  showcase their talents. The TSMC Charity Foundation collaborated with Junyi  Academy and TutorABC to bring in software, hardware,  and online courses to provide more diversified  materials for rural students. In 2020, a total of 96 tablet  PCs, 180 used computers, and 210 hours of online  English tutoring classes were provided. After the death  of Chen Junlang, the founder of Kid's Bookhouse, the  TSMC Charity Foundation took the initiative and began  assisting the bookhouse, matching local resources,  and inviting teachers and students from Senior Health  & Care Management Indigenous Department of the  National Taitung University's. Every week, students  of the department will visit Kid's Bookhouse to tutor,  educate high-potential students, and close the education gap. In response to the information education trend  promoted by the Ministry of Education, the TSMC Charity  Foundation joined hands with the Strategy Development  Office of the National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University  to develop the first smart IoT teaching materials for  primary schools in Taiwan so as to enrich their current  courses. In 2020, following TSMC's strategies, providing  scholarships to students from National Yang Ming Chiao  Tung University as teaching assistants to serve at five  schools recommended by the Hsinchu City Government  Education Department. At the end of the same year,  31 primary schools joined this program; teachers and  students that participated gained further knowledge in  utilizing information technology. The Intelligent Engineering Center is a long-time partner  to Meihua Elementary School in Hsinchu County and  conducts experimental science education. In 2020, by  incorporating learning tasks and group competitions in  class, new scientific experiment programs were created,  allowing volunteers with no science background to teach  scientific experiments in a safe and fun way. We made six  teaching videos to attracted more volunteers from different  backgrounds to participate in the service. The Quality and  Reliability Organization and the Facility Division adopted  teaching the videos at the Baoshan Elementary School  in Hsinchu and the Hualien District Haili Holiday School  to teach students and make sure that they enjoyed the learning process; a total of 250 volunteers were involved. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one of the main axes  that the TSMC Charity Foundation focuses on  in developing science education. In addition to  continuing the program in cooperation with Microsoft  Taiwan Corporation, the Foundation further  cooperated with AI4kids and Kneron to arrange AI  training courses for TSMC volunteers. In the same  year, the Product Engineering department also  invested in volunteer services, organizing a two-day  AI camp for a total of 16 hours at Hexing Elementary  School in Hsinchu. At the camp, students learned  how to code an automatic parking lot identification  system and a voice assistant for mobile phones; the  exercises helped students learn that AI could be  used in daily life. The camp further guided students  to design AI modules on their own and strengthened  their ability for scientific applications. The Intelligent Engineering Center conducted experimental  Science education with students in Meihua Elementary School in  Hsinchu County. "Getting admitted to appliance maintenance class allows  me to receive good training and gain hands-on experience.  During the Chinese New Year,  I used what I learned to clean  the air conditioning at home and the elders praised me.  Thank you for giving me an useful skill." By cooperating with the Pingtung County Government  and Daikin Industries, Ltd., the TSMC Charity Foundation  promotes vocational education and provides a 30-hour air- conditioning cleaning and maintenance course for students  aged over 16 in Pingtung County. After training, students  can get certifications and start working. Graduates are also  encouraged to provide services to charity organizations  as a way to give back to society. The Foundation further  invited companies to join the program by organizing 2  courses in 2020 to a total of 58 students. This year, Happy  Hair is planning to provide training and opportunities to  students interested in the hair salon industry. In addition,  the Foundation called on TSMC's information system  hardware contractors to jointly organize 3 vocational  activities for students in the Changhua and Nantou rural  areas, with a total of 60 students participating. "Compared with children from areas with abundant  resources, children in rural areas generally lack  self-esteem. The TSMC Charity Foundation guides  students to discover their own potentials, affirm  their abilities, and see future possibilities so that  students could pay more attention to fields they  are interested in." cooperating with 104 Corporation, the TSMC Charity  Foundation invited 100 craftsmen from different fields  to film videos introducing their work and its required  skills, encouraging young people to explore different  careers. The Intelligent Manufacturing Center, Fab 8,  and the Quality and Reliability Organization provided  support to the St. Francis' Maiden's House, Hsinchu  City Renai Children's Home, and Miaoli St. Francis'  Nursery. The goal was to "Explore Skills for New Career  Possibilities", which hopes to inspire confidence and  interest in career development among students through  the TSMC career event day, practical agricultural career  experience, and DIY activities; 116 students benefitted  from the program. efforts with the "Ten Thousand Dollar Per Household"  and "Emergency Aid for the Disadvantaged"  programs by providing financial support to  disadvantaged families and families facing big  challenges. By working with the different government  social welfare departments, the Foundation visited  disadvantaged families to understand their needs.  The Foundation called people and companies to  donate and worked with Sending Love Forward  to find social resources for these households and  to offer them basic necessities, benefitting 75  households. The Corporate Planning Organization has long been  volunteering in after school classes in Zhudong,  Erchongpu, and Xinpu of Hsinchu County. They  discovered that most of the after school classes were  short of funds and much of the teaching equipment was Donated NT$16.18 million to the disadvantaged Technology and Service Organization assisted in  repairing 4 disadvantaged family houses in Yongkang  District and Liuying District in Tainan, addressing the  problems of water leakage and exposed pipelines. Hsinchu Veterans Home and St. Teresa Children Center  are TSMC' s long-term partners and TSMC volunteers visit  the two organizations to bring warmth and joy through  regular activities. In 2020, TSMC volunteers served the two  organizations 503 times with 3,521 hours of service. In 2020, through the introduction and recommendation  of the World Vision Taiwan, the Advanced Packaging  old. Therefore, the Organization provided new tables and chairs and replaced old monitors to ensure a safe learning  environment. InW 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation  assisted in the renovation of three classrooms to provide  a comfortable environment for teachers and students. Volunteers from the Human Resource Organization,  Fab 6, Fab 8, Fab 12A, Fab 12B, Fab 14, the Intelligent  Manufacturing Center, and the Product Development  Organization assisted Luway Opportunity Center,  Sylin-Lu Social Welfare Foundation, Taiwan Fund for  Children and Families, and Shandao Academy in raising  funds for daily operations during the pandemic. The  Product Development Organization helped St. Camillus  Center for Intellectual Disability raise NT$1 million  for its equipment. Through TSMC i-Charity Platform,  Fab 6 invited TSMC employees to support the World  Vision Taiwan, raising NT$1.09 million. The Quality and  Reliability Organization assisted a private child-care  nursing home in Miaoli in raising NT$180,000, which  flattened the donation gap caused by the pandemic. The Advanced Packaging Technology and Service Organization  assisted in repairing disadvantaged family houses in Liuying  District in Tainan. The TSMC Charity Foundation promotes rural  education demonstration sites and, together with  the Changhua County Government, introduced  the three main strategies: Multicultural Education,  Subject-based Education, and Vocational  Education into 17 after-school classes, benefitting a  total of 937 disadvantaged students.  In terms of Multicultural Education, volunteers  from Fab 15A and Fab 15B visit BOYO Changhua  Center, Dazhuang Community After School Care  Class, and Maxing Community After-school Care  Class every other week to help students with  their studies. To ensure sustainability, the Junyi  Academy provides online teacher training to let  more volunteers participate. As for Subject-based  Education, the TSMC Charity Foundation has  worked with the BOYO Social Welfare Foundation,  also avid education advocates, to establish a  location for after-school classes in Changhua. We  offered tablets/used computers and utilized online  platforms such as TutorABC and the Junyi Academy  to improve English and math abilities. Lastly, we  worked with TSMC's computer equipment suppliers  to organize computer maintenance courses for  interested students. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society Vice President Lai Ching-te went to the Changhua Center to learn more about TSMC' s investment in rural education. "Aiming for the common good, TSMC contributes not only to Taiwan's economy but also to  Taiwan's rural education." According to statistics from the Ministry of  Interior, R.O.C., Taiwan, Taiwan’s population  showed negative growth in 2020. It is  estimated that, by 2025, Taiwan will become  a super-aged society with over 20% of our  population aged over 65. The number and  needs of disadvantaged elders and those  living alone may continue to grow. The TSMC Charity Foundation works with  our medical and healthcare partners to share  information through Networking of Love.  We offer elders living alone with quality and  comprehensive care in an attempt to meet  their needs. In 2020, the Networking of Love organized a cross- industry sharing event for the first time, inviting public  welfare partners from food, education, energy, and  other industries to share their experiences and inspire  each other. They cared for the elderly living alone  through online platforms and improved resource  efficiency. With 70 participants, the event opened up  more opportunities for cooperation. the elderly' s willingness to seek medical attention. In  2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation received a request  from the Zhudong Branch of the National Taiwan  University Hospital, stating that the hospital needs  portable Sarcopenia meters. The Foundation therefore  invested NT$550,000 to support the hospital' s need so  that the elderly can get proper care at home. In addition,  the Foundation spent NT$900,000 on purchasing shuttle  buses for the Longchang Cultural and Health Station in  Dulan Village, Taitung County, which will be used to pick  up physically challenged elders, overcoming the long  distance between hospitals and their homes. The TSMC Charity Foundation and the Hualien Mennonite  Foundation, through rigorous assessments, utilized their  engineering experience of post-disaster reconstruction  to help 7 elders living alone repair their houses to offer a  safe living environment. The Network of Love open house event in 2020 invited  charity partners to brainstorm ideas for innovative projects  implementation, creating more opportunities for collaboration. "We appreciate the TSMC Charity Foundation for  bringing and spreading love across Taiwan. Together  we can create more good and make love infinite!" "As a member of the Networking of Love, we will  narrow the social gap together with TSMC. With  technology, we can show that we care and help them  feel loved. OLD YES!" —Lihua Yang, Associate Director of China Medical University  —Ms. You Lili, Chief Director of the Old Five Old Foundation In 2020, volunteers from the Quality and Reliability  Organization, Fab 3, Fab 15B, Fab 12A, and Fab 12B  sent food and clothes to agencies that offer geriatric care  such as the Stella Matutina Social Welfare Foundation,  Huashan Foundation, Old Five Old Foundation, and  Hsinchu Catholic Social Service Center. The foods were  dishes that are commonly eaten during reunion dinners;  through cooking activities, elders were able to get active,  socialize, and stay young. Fab 12A works with the Huashan Social Welfare Foundation to  purchase household appliances and take care of the elders who  live alone. —Handy Ko, Director of  Material Supply Chain Management "Simply being there is the best support that we can  provide. Through listening and caring, our society  could achieve the common good." “I feel different all day when I could really help. I find  myself capable and willing to give more!” oats. Volunteers also prepared Wormwood soap,  which symbolizes good luck and dispels evil, as gifts to celebrate the festival. Before the Moon Festival, Fab 12A  and Fab 15B raised 197 gift boxes and 40 boxes of moon  cake for the elderly living alone served by the Huashan  Foundation and the Old Five Old Foundation to warm  their hearts. Quality and Reliability Organization celebrated Father's Day with  the elders living alone. - TSMC Employees' Children Who Participated in Quality &  Reliability Org Volunteering Activities A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society —Frankie Tsai, Dep. Manager of Fab 12A Volunteers from the Material Supply Chain Management accompanied elders living alone to Taipei Zoo. embarking on an urban adventure through the Taipei MRT  system. Volunteers from Fab 15B accompanied physically  challenged elders to purchase daily necessities, helping  them step out from their homes and connect with society  again. Volunteers from Fab 12A made scallion pancakes  Division took the elderly in Hualien to visit the Taipei Zoo, "It is wonderful to have the opportunity to serve the  elders. During the process, we can learn to help others  and further realize the beauty of sharing." with the elders of the Hsinchu Veterans Home. Through  social events like DIY cooking, they hoped that elders can  go out more and stay physically and emotionally young. According to statistics from the Ministry  of Health and Welfare, Taiwan's society is  now an aging society and the percentage  of elders living alone continues to rise.  Considering the limited social resources,  the TSMC Charity Foundation is hoping  to strengthen concepts of filial piety and  family communications to tackle the  challenge from the source. The TSMC Charity Foundation believes  that, by cooperating with governments,  enterprises, and schools, we can cushion  the impact from an aging society through  diverse events raising awareness for  filial piety, promoting a parent-children  relationship filled with understanding and  care, increasing awareness on filial piety  among our youth, and ensuring that our  seniors are cared for.   Note1: In response to the filial piety concept advocated by Chairperson Sophie Chang of the TSMC Charity Foundation, the Ministry of Education provided filial piety courses, encouraging students to practice filial piety in their daily lives. The  project includes essay-writing events, micro-films, and flash mobs. The MOE also established the Filial Piety Resource Center to strengthen filial piety courses and teaching.  Note2: The "Warmth Project" is included in the series of MOE filial piety activities, encouraging students to express love to their families and pass on the taste of home through activities. Starting from the curriculum, the value of family can be  deepened and let children give back to their families. The TSMC Charity Foundation cooperated with the  Filial Piety Resource Center under the K-12 Education  Administration in 2020 to hold 4 filial piety parent- child workshops to around 123 participants. In order  to promote filial piety, the Foundation, based on their  past experience, created online teaching materials,  including workshop introductions, operating manuals,  and teaching demonstration videos. These are  available for free download on the Filial Piety Resource  Center's website.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer ▪Hold filial piety parent-child workshops   ▪Volunteers visit schools to promote filial piety  while volunteers from Fab 15B read picture books about  filial piety to children. In 2020, TSMC's filial piety volunteers held story-readings  on filial piety in school, organized activities revolving  around filial piety, and prepared fun, interactive lessons  to imbue teachings of filial piety into the curriculum so as  to sow the seeds of filial piety. We are currently working  with 15 schools through 122 filial piety volunteers.   Fab 15B has been teaching filial piety at Taichung Beishi  Elementary School through sharing filial piety stories and  worksheets, encouraging students to think about their  interactions with their elders and impressing in them the  concept of filial piety; a total of 510 students participated  in filial piety education at Taichung Beishi Elementary  School. Fab 12A invited colleagues to take photos of their family  members and convey their love through post-it notes;  Fab 15A visited BOYO Social Welfare Foundation in  Changhua to help children make Mother's Day cakes and  read related books to encourage children to express  gratitude to their mothers. "We appreciate the TSMC Charity Foundation for  promoting and practicing filial piety to make our  society better." The Quality and Reliability Organization showed support for the  project of MOE by teaching students how to prepare meals, so  that they can understand the hard work their parents do. In 2020, the K-12 Education Administration under the  MOE promoted a series of teaching plans to increase  parent-child interactions by getting students to knit,  cook lunch boxes, and write autobiographies of their  elders. The Quality and Reliability Organization showed  support for the project by visiting Baoshan Elementary  School-Lake Branch in Hsinchu County to teach students  how to make nutritious and delicious meals so that they  can understand the hard work their parents do. Fab 14B  taught Tainan Municipal Jingliao Junior High School's  students to assist their elders in completing their  autobiography through interviews, so as to promote  mutual understanding among family members. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society The Quality and Reliability Organization showed support for the project of MOE by teaching students how to prepare meals, so that they  can understand the hard work their parents do. "The Warmth Project is doing great, thanks to the  TSMC Charity Foundation's support. Thank you for  your dedication and effort to create a good society." "Long-term collaboration with the TSMC Charity  Foundation gives me insight into their kind hearts. It  seems that they will never get tired of learning and  promoting filial piety." Climate change has brought on environmental  issues and food inequality. Corporations should  take action and help reduce the negative  impacts of climate change. The TSMC Charity Foundation is assisting TSMC  fabs in recovering surrounding ecosystems  and advocating for sustainable actions,  environmental awareness, and renewable  energies in schools and communities.  The Foundation is also working with food  companies to reduce food waste. In 2020, the TSMC Charity Foundation worked with Chi  Mei Food, Laurel Corporation, Hsin Tung Yang, Hunya  Foods Co., Ltd., Lian Hwa Foods Corporation, and Shih  Chen Foods Co., Ltd. to expand the scope of the Cherish  Food Program by regularly sending goodwill foods to 92  agencies that serve the disadvantaged in 13 cities and  counties in Taiwan, benefitting 37,071 people. In addition,  20 freezers were donated to charity agencies to ensure  that foods remain fresh. TSMC Charity Foundation collaborated with Hsin Tung Yang to  organize a volunteer chef activity which supplied a delicious  feast to residents of Shuangxi District in the New Taipei City. TSMC's energy conservation volunteers are committed  to promoting water and energy conservation knowledge.  Fab 6 assisted two rural schools in Tainan to inspect the  status of water and electricity use and conduct safety  tests to ensure maximum energy efficiency. At the same  time, they also use interactive teaching and self-made  teaching aids to educate students on energy and water  conservation. In 2020, energy conservation volunteers  served a total of 52 times to provide over 520 hours in  energy-saving services. TSMC opened the green ecological parks at Fab 15 to student tours. TSMC is striving to recover ecosystems surrounding  TSMC fabs and make sure that the ecosystem is  conducive to biodiversity. It opened the green ecological  parks at Fab 12B, Fab 15, and Fab 14 to student  tours. Students are able to experience cleanroom  suits, engage in DIY activities, and conduct scientific  experiments to strengthen their understanding and  participation in environmental protection. In addition,  eco-volunteers from TSMC serve regularly at the Shuihu  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Innovation Pioneer An Admired Employer Power to Change Society TSMC believes that sharing technological knowledge is  one of the most important ways to give back to society.  TSMC not only provides tour services to The World of has been updated to make it comprehensive and up- to-date. There have been 2,565 volunteers that served  over 10,260 hours in guiding participants to learn  about the chip production process and semiconductor  development through interactive games. In 2020, the Facility Division donated over NT$1.2 million  to the Taichung St. Coletta Catholic Training Center for  Special Needs and the Maria Wufeng Caring Home for  solar panels. The donation was to support renewable  Science and TSMC's Museum of Innovation for the general  public to better understand the semiconductor industry  and its applications. In 2020, The World of Semiconductors  Ecological Education Park to share the environment  and the beauty of nature with the public. In 2020, eco- volunteers served a total of 992 times in providing over  3,968 hours in tours.  energy and helped the two organizations gain financial  support by selling their green electricity. Volunteers from Fab 12A have been accompanying  students from the Baoshan Elementary School in  Hsinchu. They arranged playlets to teach students how  to cherish food and the environment. Environmental  protection books were also donated to schools to raise  environmental awareness among students. "Life is like an integrated circuit with different paths  and choices. We hope that children can learn in a fun  way. Their laughers prove that they are having fun  when learning and inspire us a lot." TSMC advocates and acts upon the principles of  operational transparency and respect for shareholder  rights. We believe that the basis for successful corporate  governance is a sound and effective Board of Directors. In  line with this principle, the TSMC Board delegates various Inheriting the spirit of TSMC's Founder, Dr. Morris  Chang's philosophy on corporate governance,   under the leadership of Chairman Dr. Mark Liu ▪Resolve the important, concrete matters   ▪Provide guidance to the management team and CEO & Vice Chairman Dr. Wei, TSMC's  Board of Directors takes a serious and forthright  approach to its duties and is a dedicated,  competent and independent Board. Compensation Committee Audit Committee responsibilities and authority to two Board Committees,  the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee.  Each Committee's chairperson regularly reports to  the Board on the activities and actions of the relevant  committee. The Board of Directors plays the role of overseeing and providing guidance to the Company's  comprehensive sustainable management strategies.  TSMC's Chairman chairs the ESG Steering Committee,  and the Chairperson of the ESG Committee serves as its  Executive Secretary and reports semi-annually to the Board of Directors on the implementation results and  the future work plan. Starting from 2021, the reporting  frequency to the Board of Directors has been increased  to a quarterly basis. TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group of  professionals from different backgrounds in industries,  academia, law, etc. These professionals include citizens  from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class  business operating experience, one of whom is female. The Board of Directors established the "Guidelines  for Nomination of Directors", which describes the  procedures and criteria for the nomination, qualification  and evaluation of candidates for Directors. In addition,  TSMC envisions its Board to be composed of a majority  of independent directors, with the independence of  each independent director candidate considered and  assessed under relevant laws. TSMC implemented Board performance evaluations in  2020. Through self-assessment surveys via questionnaire, performance evaluations are completed annually  by the Board as a whole, by individual directors and  by the Audit Committee. For the results of the 2020  performance evaluations, please refer to the 2020  Annual Report. Involvement in the Company's  operation  2. Enhancement of the quality of  the board's  decision-making  3. Makeup and structure of the  board Election of board members  and continuing knowledge  development Internal controls Understanding of the Company's  goals and mission Awareness of director's duties Involvement in the Company's  operations  4. Internal relationship and  communication Director's professionalism  and continuing knowledge  development Internal controls Involvement in the Company's  operation 2. Awareness of the audit  committe's duties Enhancement of the quality  of the audit committee's  decision-making Makeup of the audit committee  and election of its members Internal controls Based on both its corporate vision and its long-term,  sustainable responsibility to both industry and society,  TSMC operates an enterprise risk management (ERM)  program to integrate and manage potential sustainability  risks including strategic, operational, financial and  hazardous risks (e.g. climate change, utility supply,  earthquake, fire, chemical spill, etc.) that represent  potential negative consequences to operations  and financial results. The TSMC risk management  organization is composed of the RM Steering Committee,  RM Executive Council, RM Program and RM Task Force. RM Program The risk management framework (including risk  identification and assessment, risk control and  mitigation, risk response, risk monitoring and reporting)  is applied to identify and prioritize risk controls, and to  implement various controls and risk treatment. The risk  management organization briefs the audit committee  each year on the ever-changing risk environment  facing TSMC, the focus of the Company's enterprise  risk management, and risk assessment and mitigation  efforts. The audit committee's chairperson also reports  on the risk environment and risk mitigation actions to be  taken. For more details of Risk Management, please refer  to TSMC's 2020 Annual Report "6.3 Risk Management". Integrity is TSMC's most important core value. Based on  this value, TSMC has established its ethics and regulatory  compliance system, including a sequence of regulatory  identification, compliance policy and procedure  formulation, implementation and execution, self- assessment and examination, as well as open reporting  channels and whistleblower protection. The Company's  management team acts in accordance with our Ethics  Code and fosters a robust ethics and regulatory  compliance through its tone from the top. The ethical  culture of TSMC is continuously strengthened through  comprehensive education, training and promotion  provided to its employees. At the same time, TSMC works  hand in hand with its customers and supply chain to  serve the mutual benefit of the industry, and serves as a TSMC holds zero tolerance for corrupt practices  and strictly prohibits any behavior of bribery, fraud,  blackmail, misuse or misappropriation of the Company's  assets, or impairment of the Company's interest for  personal gain. TSMC Ethics and Business Conduct Policy  (the Ethics Code) is the guideline for implementing the  aforementioned core values. Every employee is required  to exercise self-discipline by complying with the highest  ethical standards and substantially implements integrity,  equality, and transparency in daily operations. In view of trustworthy partner to its stakeholders. the importance of compliance with the Ethics Code, the  Company's management team regularly reports to the  Board and the Audit Committee on ethics and regulatory  compliance. TSMC formed an Ethics Committee, which  oversees implementation of the Ethics Code as well  as investigation and disciplinary action for reported  incidents. At the same time, suppliers are an important  part of the implementation of the Ethics Code and  regulatory compliance. TSMC established the "Supplier TSMC identifies potential risks and impacts arising from  regulatory changes by regularly tracking such changes.  According to the results of regulatory identification,  TSMC assesses whether internal regulations align  with the changes to ensure that relevant policies and  regulations are applicable and appropriate. In 2020,  TSMC updated its export control policy to be in line with  the latest export control regulatory changes. Code of Conduct" bringing the core value of integrity  into our supply chains and demonstrating it in business  behavior; and published TSMC's Anti-Corruption  Commitment on TSMC's webpage, enabling stakeholders  to recognize TSMC's core value of integrity. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer TSMC requires all of its organizations, subsidiaries and  employees to ensure their business operations are  compliant with laws, Company policies, and regulations  when doing business. Through an annual Control Self- Assessment (CSA), employees examine their own  compliance performance and are open for audit by the  Internal Audit organization. This is an important part of  TSMC's effort to implement regulatory compliance. To raise employee awareness of ethics and regulatory  compliance, TSMC provides a variety of training courses  for all employees based on relevant job responsibilities.  The training courses include face-to-face courses and  promotions as well as mandatory and elective online  courses. Through posters around our facilities, guidelines  and FAQs on regulatory compliance on the Company’s  intranet, internal email distributions, and promotional  articles, TSMC ensures that all employees have timely  access to new information on regulations and have a  deeply-ingrained awareness of various issues. In 2020, TSMC provided an "Annual Ethics and  Compliance Training Course", a mandatory online training  course including topics such as ethics and anticorruption,  avoiding and reporting conflict of interest, export control,  privacy and personal data protection, and antitrust  laws, to a total of 50,482 employees, reaching 99.7%  completion rate. TSMC additionally offered more than  20 face-to-face compliance training courses and online  courses on subjects regarding export control and anti- trust laws to employees in relevant functions - a total of  1,272 employees completed our online course on export  control, and another 841 on anti-trust. In 2020, we held  both a sustainable supply chain experience exchange  and our annual Responsible Supply Chain Forum to share  and exchange practical experience on topics such as  the Ethics Code, labor rights, environmental protection,  and occupational safety. In total, 518 attendees from 337  suppliers participated in these activities. To implement the Ethics Code and to avoid potential  conflicts, TSMC requires every newly-hired employee to  complete a conflict of interest declaration upon arrival.  Employees with specific job grades or positions need  to complete the declarations annually. In 2020, 18,235  TSMC employees completed the Annual Conflict of  Interest Declaration to which all declarants agreed to  comply with the Ethics Code. Internal Audit performs an  audit according to the annual audit plan approved by the  Board of Directors and reports the results and follow- up improvement plans to the Board and management.  Internal Audit will also administer the CSA and assess its  fulfillment by each fab/division to ensure effectiveness  and for internal self-assessment. In addition, every two years, TSMC performs anonymous  surveys to suppliers and employees in turn to regularly  evaluate the effectiveness of ethics and regulatory  compliance promotion. To closely track employee  feedback for ethics and regulatory compliance, in 2020,  according to annual employee survey results, 88.7%  of employees trust the confidentiality measures of the  reporting channel, and 92.5% of employees are willing to  use the reporting channel to report misconduct. and pledges to comply with the relevant regulations in  the policy. Open and multiple reporting channels are  available for internal and external voices to protect the  rights and interests of stakeholders and the company.  All reported incidents collected from reporting channels  inside or outside of TSMC are properly recorded and  traced. TSMC also prohibits any form of retaliation by  providing proper protection for any individual who in  good faith reports a suspected violation or participates  in an investigation. In 2020, the Ethics Committee held a  total six meetings to examine major reported incidents  under investigation. TSMC investigates each individual case according  to its characteristics through specific divisions, and  treats every received case seriously, carefully, and  effectively to ensure the accuracy of the investigation.  Each investigated case confirmed to be true will receive  discipline, up to and including dismissal, termination  of the business relationship, and legal prosecution as  appropriate. The TSMC Ethics Committee will evaluate  each case to determine whether it is an exceptional case  or whether it results from systemic issues of insufficient  awareness in ethics. This will allow TSMC to continue  evaluating whether it is necessary to improve its  management and internal control procedures. Activities  such as emails to employees that disclose the violations  and disciplinary actions in each quarter are conducted to  promote employees' awareness and avoid recurrence of  similar incidents. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer In 2020, we did not receive any reports related to finance,  accounting or antitrust matters, nor did we receive any  complaints concerning breach of customer privacy  and loss of customer data, or any material regulatory  violations (where a fine exceeds NT$1 million). In 2020, the incidents reported through the Audit  Committee Whistleblower System, Ombudsman System, and Irregular Business Conduct Reporting System totaled  246. Among them, 155 cases were related to employee  relations, 69 cases were categorized as others (e.g. asking  personal questions or private matters), and 22 cases  were related to ethics. Six  incidents were verified upon  investigation and determined for disciplinary action  by the Ethics Committee. In 2020, TSMC leveraged the  six violations to strengthen ethics promotion for all  employees in supplier-related activities. with investors, in 2015 TSMC set clear strategic financial  objectives: (1) average return on equity (ROE) to be at  least 20% across cycles; (2) compound annual growth  rate (CAGR) of net income to be between 5% and 10%  for the years 2015 through 2020. Concluding 2020, TSMC  delivered (1) average ROE of 24.4% and (2) net income A solid financial foundation is the key to corporate  sustainability. With good financial performance, prudent  business plans, and disciplined capital management,  TSMC is able to maintain a solid financial foundation  to weather industry cyclicality. TSMC pursues good  financial performance mainly through revenue growth  and consistent improvement in profitability to create  greater economic value for its stakeholders, including  shareholders/investors, employees, customers, suppliers,  government, society, and others.  To communicate TSMC's long-term investment value CAGR of 11.1% for the years 2015 through 2020, both  exceeding the prior targets. As the multi-year megatrends of 5G and HPC-related  applications are expected to fuel strong demand for TSMC's  advanced technologies in the next several years, the  Company is entering a period of higher growth from 2020.  Therefore, TSMC further expects (1) its long-term revenue  growth, in US dollar terms, to be 10% to 15% CAGR from  2020 to 2025, with (2) minimum ROE of 20% across cycles. Given the funding requirement of the growth opportunities,  macroeconomic uncertainties, the current low interest rate  environment, and ability to diversify funding sources, TSMC  issued a total of NT$120 billion in NT dollar denominated  and US$4 billion in US dollar denominated corporate  bonds with favorable pricing terms. After the bond  issuances, TSMC continues to maintain the semiconductor  industry's highest credit ratings. 24.8% 10-Year Averaged ROE (2011-2020) 12.4% Supported by the Company's strengthening industry  position, growth potential, and solid operating  performance, TSMC's share price, adjusted for cash  dividends, increased 64.7% in 2020, marking 12  consecutive years of annual growth. Since the Company  went public in 1994, TSMC has been profitable every  year and TSMC's market capitalization has been growing  steadily. As of December 31, 2020, TSMC's market  capitalization reached NT$14.2 trillion, or US$498.5 billion. TSMC's solid financial performance enables the  Company to distribute profits to shareholders in the  form of cash dividends. TSMC's Board of Directors approved quarterly cash  dividends of NT$2.5 per share per quarter in 2020.  TSMC's shareholders received a total of NT$10 per share  in cash dividends in 2020. From 2004 to 2020, TSMC has  paid out a total of NT$1.9 trillion, or US$62.4 billion, in  cash dividends. In the future, TSMC intends to maintain a sustainable  quarterly cash dividend, and to distribute the cash  dividend each year at a level not lower than the year before.  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer 14.2Trillion (NT$) Total Cash Dividend Paid in 2020 1.9Trillion (NT$) Market Capitalization at the End of 2020  64.7% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0.6 2.5 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 $77B $77B $77B $78B $78B $78B $78B $78B 6.0 7.0 8.0 10.0 10.0 TSMC supports tax policies and incentives that encourage  enterprise innovation and foster economic growth. The  Company aims for its tax approach and disclosure to be  transparent and sustainable in the long term. Inter-company transactions are based on  the arm's length principle, in compliance  with internationally accepted transfer pricing  guidance published by the OECD Be transparent in financial reporting.  Disclosures are made in accordance with  applicable regulations and reporting  requirements Always consider tax as part of major  business decisions TSMC's 2020 income  tax payment in Taiwan  represented 10.1% of  total corporate income  taxes collected by the  R.O.C. government TSMC is subject to tax laws and regulations in various  jurisdictions in which it operates or conducts business.  Any unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations in  these jurisdictions could increase the Company's effective  tax rate and have an adverse effect on its operating  results. In order to effectively manage tax risks, TSMC  follows internal control processes, identifies, assesses,  and manages tax risks from regulatory changes and its  business transactions, accounts for them appropriately,  and implements and monitors controls over them. Tax risk management is incorporated in TSMC's enterprise  risk management (ERM) program. The risk management  organization regularly briefs TSMC's Audit Committee  on the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the  focus of the Company's enterprise risk management, and  risk assessment and mitigation efforts. For more details  on risk management, please refer to "Risk Management"  section in TSMC's 2020 Annual Report. 10.1% 1 > 90% 58.9Billion(NT$) In 2020, TSMC's total  tax payments on a cash  basis worldwide were  NT$58.9 billion In 2020, over 90% of TSMC's  revenue and profit before  tax were generated from its  business operations in Taiwan.  Meanwhile, over 90% of its tax  payments were also made to  the Taiwan R.O.C. government TSMC's effective tax rate in 2020 was 11.5%, unchanged  from 2019. The effective tax rate in 2020 was lower than  the R.O.C. statutory corporate income tax rate of 20%,  primarily due to a five-year tax exemption for capital  investments made in previous years, and tax credit for  research and development expenditures according  to regulations under the R.O.C. Statute for Upgrading  Industries and the Statute for Industrial Innovation.  Officer, who delegates day-to-day responsibility to the  Controller. A team of qualified and experienced tax  professionals supports the Controller to meet TSMC's tax  obligations. In addition, TSMC also leverages external tax  service providers for complementary expertise. TSMC's Audit Committee is delegated by the Board to  oversee the quality and integrity of the accounting,  auditing, reporting, and financial control practices of  the Company through periodic review of certain major  matters, including accounting policies and procedures,  internal control systems, legal compliance, and corporate  risk management, etc.  Among these, tax compliance is  included as part of the Company's legal compliance. Note: TSMC categorizes its profit before tax and taxes paid  geographically based on the country in which TSMC and  subsidaries are located. Income Tax Paid － 51.4 Billion (NT$) North America 1.2% Profit Before Tax － 584.8 Billion (NT$) Taiwan R.O.C 97.0% Asia (excluding R.O.C) 1.8% Asia (excluding R.O.C) 3.4% Taiwan R.O.C 94.7% North America 0.5% Others 1.4% 58.9  Billion (NT$) 58.9  Billion (NT$) 93.9% 4.1% 1.9% 0.1% 87.2% 10.4% Others Taiwan R.O.C Asia (excluding R.O.C) North America Others Information security and Proprietary Information  Protection are commitments from TSMC to customers,  shareholders, and employees. We are proactive in carrying  out our information security management system and  in setting related policies, management procedures  and regulations. In 2020, the TSMC Information Security  Declaration was published to declare our resolution and  objectives in information security protection— to maintain  TSMC's competitive advantage and safeguard customers  and business partners' interests. policy formulation, implementation, risk management,  and compliance audits, with the Proprietary Information  Protection Division and the Information Technology  Security Division under its supervision. Reports on  information security management performance, related  issues and directions are delivered every six months by  CIS's highest-level supervisor to the Board of Directors and  Audit Committee. As the Audit Committee is responsible  for monitoring corporate information security, TSMC's  information and cybersecurity management mechanisms  are evaluated by Sir Peter L. Bonfield, chairman of the  Audit Committee, who possesses a strong information  security background. TSMC has taken on an important role in the global  semiconductor supply chain to offer outstanding  semiconductor manufacturing services and long- term partnerships to customers. TSMC makes great  effort to enhance its Information Security and  Proprietary Information Protection mechanisms to  maintain TSMC's competitiveness and protect the  interests of its customers and partners. A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer The Proprietary Information Protection Committee  was established to implement information security  strategies formulated by CIS and ensure related  guidelines, procedures, and regulatory compliance  are carried out internally. The Committee is chaired by  the senior vice president of Information Technology  and Materials Management and Risk Management, and  vice presidents of Legal, Human Resources, Research  and Development, and Operations serve as committee  members. In addition, the highest-level supervisor from  CIS acts as the executive secretary, and the highest- level supervisor from Internal Audit as an observer. The  committee meets each quarter to review and resolve  on guidelines and policies, and carry out formulated  information security measures. The Corporate Information Security let the concept of  information security take root in the Company through  TSMC Proprietary Information Protection (PIP)  Working  Committee. The PIP Working Committee, which covers  all organizations by all functions, convenes monthly  meetings to keep track of situations on the ground and  discuss PIP measures such as information protection,  compliance, and policy applicability utilizing the Plan-Do- Check-Act (PDCA) cycle to ensure thorough management  of information security. Reports on implementation  results are delivered to the Proprietary Information  Protection Committee regularly. The  "planning" stage of the PDCA cycle focuses on  information security risk management to minimize  systemic, technological, and procedural corporate  information security threats by establishing a  comprehensive Information Security Management  System (ISMS), and ISO certification (ISO/IEC 27001 and  ISO/IEC 15408) across fabs. Enable the best proprietary  information protection to fulfill customers' needs. The  doing stage focuses on implementation of multilayered information security defense. TSMC continuously  adopts innovative information protection technology  and integrates the security control solution with daily  operations including maintenance of software and  hardware facilities, and supplier information security  management. Systematically monitoring information  security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity,  and availability of TSMC assets. Proactive monitoring on  security management performance is carried out in the  A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer Review and Improvement Activities "checking" stage, where related indicators and quantitative  analyses are used to evaluate effectiveness of security  defense, and information security maturity is assessed  through regular drills on information security attacks. In the  "action stage", security measures are regularly reviewed  and activities are planned for continuous improvement.  Continue to monitor and audit to ensure security control  effectiveness and sustainability. When employees are  found violating information security protection and PIP ▪Customer Information Security Mechanism  Information Security Risk Management procedures, penalties consistent to the severity of damage  caused by their violations are given (including annual  employee assessment and legal actions when necessary).  In addition, based on security KPI and maturity assessment  report, improvement activities for training programs,  promotion campaigns and security control mechanism are  constantly reviewed and planned to prevent breaching of  TSMC proprietary information. In 2020, TSMC's external audits concluded that no major information security  flaws, major violations, incidents of customer data breach and regulatory  fines occurred. Moreover, there has been zero complaints concerning breach  of customer privacy and loss of customer data from either third parties or  regulatory bodies resulting in judicial action. May Jun. Note: 2020 PIP performance indicators cover TSMC's Taiwan facilities and overseas subsidiaries. 100% 2020 100% 2019 0.05% Working towards sustainability, TSMC strives for a better  future along with its employees, shareholders and  investors, customers, suppliers and contractors, the  government, society, and all other stakeholders. TSMC  has issued non-financial reports for 22 consecutive  years. In accordance with the standards set by the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the reports  present the expectations and feedback given by various  stakeholders regarding the Company's daily operations.  The reports have become an important tool for  managing sustainability efforts, disclosing sustainability  strategies and measures, and sharing achievements.  TSMC is committed to making positive changes for a  better future. This report includes TSMC Taiwan Facilities (corporate  headquarters, wafer fabs in Taiwan, advanced backend  fabs) TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), WaferTech, VisEra, and  other subsidiaries. Compared to 2019, Fab18 P3 expanded  its facilities in Taiwan and started operation. If the scope  of reporting is different from the above statements, a note  will be added to explain any difference in that paragraph. The reporting period is between January 1, 2020 and  December 31, 2020. The report is published in June  2021 in both English and Chinese, and is available on  TSMC's ESG website. It mainly covers the major topics of  interest to stakeholders as well as TSMC’s practices in the  economic, environmental, and social dimensions. Visit  the following links for more data and information. Note 1: TSMC's facilities in Taiwan include corporate headquarters, wafer fabs, testing and assembly facilities. Note 2: TSMC subsidiaries or offices in North America, Europe, Japan, South Korea, and other countries. Note 1: DNV GL VeriSustain TM Protocol is consistent with AA 1000 Accountability Principles (AA1000AP) and ISAE 3000. Note 2: For the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Comparison Table and other related certification and verification documents,                  please visit TSMC's ESG website. ▪ GRI Standards: Comprehensive Option   ▪ TCFD Framework   ▪ SASB Standards   ▪ AA 1000 Accountability Principle   ▪ DNV GL Business Assurance Co. If you have any feedback, advice, or suggestion on this  report or TSMC's sustainable development, please feel free  to contact us. For more information about TSMC's latest  sustainability practices, please subscribe to TSMC's ESG  Newsletter. ▪ Responsible Unit: ESG Committee   ▪ ESG Website: http://www.tsmc.com.tw/csr/en/index.html   ▪ Email: CSRSURVEY@TSMC.COM   ▪ Phone: +886-3-5636688   ▪ Address: 8, Li-Hsin Rd. 6, Hsinchu Science Park, Hsinchu  300-78, Taiwan, R.O.C TSMC's Corporate Social Responsibility vision is to uplift  society, and our mission is integrity, strengthening  environmental protection, and caring for the  disadvantaged. Under this vision and mission, TSMC  participates in a variety of industry associations and  non-profit organizations to promote industry dialogue  and development, as well as track key issues such  as technology innovation, corporate governance, Note 1: Non-profit organizations in the areas of charity and education are not included here. For details of TSMC's participation in the TSMC Charity  Foundation and TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, please see pages 166 to 188 of this report. Note 2: By law, TSMC is not permitted to make political donations as the Company is majority-owned by foreign shareholders. TSMC has always followed this  legal requirement and maintained political neutrality, but encourages employees to fulfill their civic duty. Note 3: The three largest membership fees paid or donations made by TSMC in 2020, in descending order, are:  1) Information Technology Industry Council (ITIC)/ NT$11,772,400      The United States is one of TSMC’s primary markets. TSMC participates in the ITIC in the United States to join other global technology companies to          discuss policy trends and industry standards related to technology industry development, and to communicate with the U.S. and global government       on the importance of technology to global economy. TSMC strives for the development of the global and domestic semiconductor industry. In addition  to participating in the main industry associations in the field of semiconductors, the Company  also makes policy suggestions to the government in areas including land, water, electricity, talent,  intellectual property protection and other areas related to the competitiveness of the industry.  Industry associations that TSMC participates to steer industry development include: ▪Monte Jade Science & Technology Association of Taiwan TSMC Chairman Mark Liu has served as Chairman of the TSIA since 2019, Senior Vice President Y.P. Chin  currently serves as chairperson of TSIA’s Energy Committee, and Director Fung Han-Wen currently  serves as chairperson of TSIA’s Environment, Safety and Health Committee. Senior Director Tuan  Hsiao-Chin currently serves as chairperson of SEMI's MEMS & Sensors Committee, Senior Director  Arthur Chuang currently serves as chairperson of SEMI’s High-Tech Facility Committee, Director John  Lin currently serves as chairperson of SEMI’s IC Committee, and Director M.D. Chen currently serves  as chairperson of SEMI’s Materials Committee. Senior Vice President Rick Cassidy currently serves as  a member of the Board of Directors at GSA. Senior Vice President Y.P. Chin currently serves as standing  director of The Allied Association for Science Park Industries, and Vice President Connie Ma currently  serves as a standing controller of The Allied Association for Science Park Industries. environmental sustainability, human rights, and supply  chain management Note2. With the threat and challenges  brought by the COVID-19 pandemic around the world, TSMC  applied our unique knowledge and resources to provide  aid and relief. TSMC provided aid to areas most in need of  resources, including Taiwan, Europe, the United States,  and Mainland China to fight against pandemic and save  lives. Following the announcement to build and operate Technology innovation is the key driving force moving  the technology industry forward. TSMC not only  cares for and invests in technology innovation and  participates in the definition of technical standards,  it also calls on the government and private sector to  protect the results of innovation together so that it  can gain appropriate economic value and encourage  further innovation, creating a fair competitive  environment. TSMC participates in industry  associations in the area of technology innovation  including: ▪Taiwan Association for Trade Secrets Protection  (TTSP)   ▪Peripheral Component Interconnect Special  Interest Group (PCI SIG)   ▪JEDEC TSMC Vice President and General Counsel Sylvia Fang  jointly founded the Taiwan Association for Trade Secrets  Protection (TTSP) in 2015, and served as its Chairman  for the first two terms to help promote legal reform of  Taiwan's trade secret laws and regulations. Currently she  is a standing executive director of the TTSP. The robustness of a company's corporate governance  not only affects that company's development, it can  also affect the economic stability of a region. TSMC  places great importance on corporate governance  and has received invitations to speak on our princi- pals and methods for corporate governance, as well  as discuss the results of TSMC's 33 years of corporate  governance. TSMC participates in industry associa- tions in the area of corporate governance including: the  semiconductor industry to U.S. economic development, national security, and global competitiveness. Note 4: TSMC’s expenditures of membership and donation for industry associations and non-profit organizations between 2016 and 2020 were NT$36,296,334,  NT$21,176,571, NT$21,735,668, NT$20,338,992, and NT$40,197,059 respectively. Note 5: In addition to the expenditures disclosed in Note 4 above, TSMC's government relations expenses in 2020 was NT$40,857,291, with the primary  expense being employee payroll. TSMC did not make any political donations in reporting period. an advanced semiconductor fab in the United States,  TSMC expanded participation in industry associations  and chambers of commerce in the United States. In 2020,  TSMC participated in more than 100 industry associations  and non-profit organizations at home and abroad,  with expenditures of over NT$40.19 million Note3. Total  expenditures in the past five years (2016~2020) were about  NT$139.74 million Note4. TSMC participates in the TSIA to support Taiwan’s semiconductor industry and develop consensus on the development of the industry through the                   association’s activities and promote healthy growth for the sector through cooperation amid competition.           3) Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA)/NT$4,797,440                 TSMC participates in the SIA to join other industry members to collectively communicate with the U.S. government and highlight the importance of As TSMC's business continues to grow, its requirements for  sustainable measures such as energy conservation, carbon  reduction, water saving, and waste reduction all continue to  increase as well, and the Company devotes much attention  to its participation in the associations and organizations  related to the issue of environmental sustainability. In  addition to sharing our experiences with the organizations  below, TSMC has appointed more than 10 internal  experts to serve as committee members and committee  chairpersons in the TSIA and the Allied Association for  Science Park Industries to set standards in energy, water,  environmental protection, and occupational health, and  meet these standards together. TSMC participates in  industry associations and non-profit organizations in the  area of environmental sustainability including: TSMC Senior Vice President Lora Ho currently serves as  member of the Taiwan Center for Corporate Sustainability  board of directors. As a leading semiconductor company, TSMC aims to  use its influence in the industry to join hands with other  enterprises to work for our mutual benefit in order to  adapt to changes in the industry and the international  environment, as well as improve the Company's quality  and competitiveness. The issues covered by the industry  associations and non-profit organizations which TSMC  participates in are categorized as follows: TSMC is an official member of the Responsible  Business Alliance, and in addition to meeting  the alliance's requirements in auditing suppliers  regarding labor, safety and health, environment,  ethics, and management systems, we have also  led our suppliers to join this alliance to expand its  effectiveness. TSMC also requires all suppliers to  commit to the“Assurance to Comply with TSMC’s  Code of Ethics and Business Conduct”ensuring  that TSMC employees and suppliers follow high  ethical standards. TSMC participates in industry  associations in the area of human rights and  supply chain management including: Process Water Recycling Rate (%) Note3 Total Water Saving (Million Metric Tons)  Note3 94.3 103.4 129.0 133.6 　Scope 2 (Metric Ton–CO2 equivalent) (Market-based) 　Scope 2 (Metric Ton–CO2 equivalent) (Location-based) 60.54 82.5 118.92  116.67 9,848 12,016 13,167 14,323 9,358  11,388 12,441 13,576 33.08  43.87   39.71 32.18 163.6 170.8 168.4 102.1 38.6 45.2 51.0 58.0 42.0 48.9 56.8 64.3 87.4 87.5 87.5 86.7 489  628 726 747 3.4 3.8 5.7 6.3 16,058 170.36 38.13 106.8 173.0 86.4 77.3 70.6 507 109 6.7 67 Note 1: Figures from all Taiwan facilities and subsidiaries of TSMC. Note 2: The scope of subsidiaries in Environmental parts includes WaferTech, TSMC China Company Limited, TSMC Nanjing Company Limited and VisEra. Note 3: Figures from all Taiwan facilities of TSMC. Note 4: Safety –Injury Frequency Rate=Injury Number x 1,000,000/Total hours worked According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)/Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any diseases,  injuries, disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases, vapors, dusts, etc.,  at the place of duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the workplace such as falling in  the cafeteria or parking lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. Target has been amended according to new definition. See  Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information. ISO 14001 Certified Facilities ISO 14001 Certified Facilities (%)  100 100 100 100 100 Numbers of Employee  Employee Training Hours  Women in Workforce (%) Females in Management (%) Females in Junior Management (%)  Females in Top Management (%) Turnover Rate (%) Voluntary Turnover Rate (%) Safety–Injury Frequency Rate  Note4 Safety–Injury Severity Rate  Note5 Fatalities–Employees Fatalities–Contractors Cash Donation (NT$ million)  Note6 89.1 301.2 199.0Note7 163.5 144.4 Waste Generated (Metric Tons)  　　　　Taiwan Facilities Note 5: Safety –Injury Severity Rate=Lost Work Days x 1,000,000/Total hours worked According to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR)/Disabling Severity Rate (SR) are defined as any diseases,  injuries, disabilities, or deaths of workers caused by buildings, machinery, equipment, raw materials, materials, chemicals, gases, vapors, dusts, etc.,  at the place of duty, or as a result of work activities, or due to other occupational causes. Other unrelated injuries in the workplace such as falling in  the cafeteria or parking lot due to various reasons are not considered as work injuries. Target has been amended according to new definition. See  Statistical Analysis of Disabling Injuries for detailed information. Note 6: Cash donation is the amount of cash donations by TSMC, TSMC Education and Culture Foundation, TSMC Charity Foundation, TSMC employees and  TSMC Employee Welfare Committee. Note 7: In response to the government's renewable energy policy, TSMC purchased 100 GWh green power in 2017, which was the main reason for the increase  in annual cash donations. The government's green power purchase plan was terminated at the end of 2017. TSMC is proactively searching for  renewable energy. 46,968 48,602 48,752 51,297 56,831 4,685 5,037 5,501 7,119 7,700 2,092 2,740 10,516 14,116 17,765 68.8 79.7 85.1 90.1 102.4 12.8 13.6 13.7 13.6 13.0 0.29 0.35 0.47 0.52 0.42 16.3 12.9 13.1 7.9 6.3 40.1 39.3 38.7 37.8 37.1 0.19 0.22 0.18 0.09 0.07 20.0 20.0 18.5 11.1 10.0 11.7 12.3 12.6 12.7 12.5 4.3 4.2 4.5 4.9 5.3 4.2 4.1 4.3 4.8 5.1 95 95 95 95 96 95 95 95 96 95 79 80 83 74 77 18 20 22 22 23 An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention - Shared Visions and Values- Workforce Structure All employee number has been disclosed in "Workforce Structure", the number of contractors has also disclosed in the note In 2020, there were 2,605 non-employee workers conducted preventive maintenance tasks for facility systems. A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management - Sustainability Risk Management/Local Procurement Optimization  Details please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report 5.3.5 The risk management organization regularly briefs the audit committee on the ever-changing risk environment facing TSMC, the focus of  the Company’s enterprise risk management, and risk assessment and mitigation efforts. The audit committee’s chairperson also reports  on the risk environment and risk mitigation actions to be taken. TSMC and its subsidiaries are committed to proactively and cost effectively  integrating and managing strategic, operational, financial and hazardous risks together with potential consequences to operations and  financial results. TSMC operates an enterprise risk management (ERM) program and apply a risk map considering likelihood and impact  severity to identify and prioritize corporate risks. Various risk treatment strategies are also adopted in response corporate risks as they are  identified.  Refer section 6.3 Risk Management of 2020 TSMC Annual Report for details of implementation of ERM (Eneterprise Risk Management) Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members 3 Corporate Governance Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 3.6 Regulatory Compliance Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 3.6 Regulatory Compliance 5.5.6 Employee Engagement/Employee Communication Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 2.3.1 Organization Chart 3 Corporate Governance Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.4 Taiwan Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission/Assessment Item 5 ▪TSMC’s Board of Directors consists of distinguished members with a great breadth of experience as world-class business leaders or  professionals. All of them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics.   ▪TSMC established its Audit Committee and Compensation Committee in 2002 and 2003, respectively, both of which are now  composed entirely of independent directors. 102-24 In 2019, TSMC established “Guidelines for Nomination of Directors”, which describes the procedures and criteria for the  nomination, qualification and evaluation of candidates for Directors. Please refer to our website. TSMC envisions the membership of its esteemed Board of Directors to be composed of highly ethical professionals with the  necessary knowledge, experience and understanding from diverse backgrounds. TSMC envisions its Board to be composed of  as many independent directors as possible, and the independence of each independent director candidate is also considered  and assessed under relevant laws. Therefore, TSMC composes its Board with world-class candidates who are/were international  or local business leaders in the high-tech industry, prestigious academics or other professionals excelling in their chosen field of  expertise. All of them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics. Directors shall be elected pursuant to the candidate nomination system specified in Article 192-1 of the R.O.C. Company Law. The  tenure of office for Directors shall be three years. The independence of each independent director candidate is also considered  and assessed under relevant law such as the Taiwan “Regulations Governing Appointment of Independent Directors and  Compliance Matters for Public Companies”. Under R.O.C. law, in which TSMC was incorporated, any shareholders holding one  percent or more of our total outstanding common shares may nominate their own candidate to stand for election as a Board  member. This democratic mechanism allows our shareholders to become involved in the selection and nomination process of  Board candidates. The final slate of candidates is put to the shareholders for voting at the relevant annual shareholders' meeting. There are no limits on the number of terms that a director may serve. We believe the Company benefits from the contributions of  directors who have over their years of dedicated service acquired unique insights into the operations and financial developments  of the Company. The Company reviews the appropriateness of each director’s continued service to ensure there are new  viewpoints available to the Board. The avoidance of conflicts of interests is governed by several corporate processes. First, any director or executive officer who, for  him/herself or on behalf of another, wishes to engage in any business activity that overlaps with TSMC's business must obtain the  prior approval of our shareholders' meeting or Board of Directors respectively in accordance with relevant laws. Second, each  board member and executive officer must complete an annual declaration on related party transactions which is reviewed by our  Audit Committee. Third, we are subject to strenuous reporting requirements on reporting any related party transactions under  both R.O.C. and U.S. security rules. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members 4.1.4 Major Shareholders 4.1.8 Related Party Relationship among TSMC’s 10 Largest Shareholders 5.3.5 Raw Materials and Supply Chain Management-Suppliers Accounted for at Least 10% of Annual Consolidated Net  Procurement 5.4 Customer Trust-Customers Accounted for at Least 10% of Annual Consolidated Net Revenue 8.1 Subsidiaries Chairperson of the ESG Committee reports annually to the Board of Directors on implementation results of the prior year and  the work planned for the upcoming year (the report includes economic, environmental and social topics). In addition, the Board  of Directors also reviews the annual plan and the donations of the "TSMC Education and Culture Foundation" and "TSMC Charity  Foundation".   ▪TSMC's Board of Directors consists of distinguished members with a great breadth of experience as world-class business leaders  or professionals. All of them have management experience and competency in economic, environmental and social topics.   ▪TSMC has set an "ESG Policy" and an "ESG Matrix", and the "ESG Matrix" clearly defines the scope of the TSMC's responsibilities. Sustainable Business Practices: ESG Implementation Framework, ESG Management Platform   ▪TSMC's Chairperson chairs the ESG Steering Committee and the ESG Committee chair acts as the executive secretary. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3. Corporate Governance “Continuing Education/Training of Directors” in 2020. Operations and Governance: Corporate Governance-Board of Directors and Committees-Board and Audit Committee Performance  Evaluations Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.1 Corporate Governanc/2020 Corporate Governance Awards and Ratings 3.2 Board of Directors/Director's Compensation 3.4 Taiwan Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory  Commission/Assessment Item 3 - (3) 7     Corporate Social Responsibility/2020 ESG Awards and Ratings Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2 Board of Directors The Board of Directors considers economic, environmental and social topics and their impact, risks and opportunities, and  stakeholder opinions, when resolving important company matters, for example, when approving capital appropriations. The Board  will also review the corporate strategies proposed by TSMC management, evaluate the prospects of these strategies, review their  progress, and provide guidance to TSMC management when needed. 3.2.1 Audit Committee 3.2.2 Compensation Committee 3.4 Taiwan Corporate Governance Implementation as Required by Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission/Assessment Item 5 6.3 Risk Management 7    Corporate Social Responsibility/ESG Management/Stakeholder Engagement Quarterly management reports and semi-annual CSR reports develop and enhance the Board of Directors' collective knowledge of  economic, environmental and social topics. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 6.3 Risk Management Effectiveness of risk  management processes  102-30 ▪Public Relations department: press releases In addition, the Board maintains a regular line of communication with TSMC management, which will remain open if an event of  critical concerns occurs. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2.4 Director and Committees Members' Attendance/Audit Committee Meeting Status Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3. Corporate Governance 6.3 Risk Management Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3 Corporate Governance (This report is reviewed and approved by the Company's functional heads and Chairperson of the ESG Committee) Please refer to the material information the Company has disclosed on Market Observation Post System (MOPS), which indicates the  total number and nature of critical concerns. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 6.3 Enterprise Risk Management Framework: TSMC and its subsidiaries adopt risk management strategies corresponding to risk level through implementing an Enterprise  Risk Management (ERM) system that weighs strategic, operational, financial and hazardous risks that may disrupt the Company's  operations or financial results. If any events of critical concerns occur, the Company can resolve the event by using existing risk  management mechanisms. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report : The extent and value of the services provided for the management of the Corporation and  operating performance includes objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics. 2.4.2 Remuneration Paid to Directors 2.5.2 Compensation Paid to CEO and Vice Presidents 2.5.3 Employees' Profit Sharing Bonus Paid to Management Team Pension funded according to applicable law and there is no difference with other employees. And also, 2020 CSR Report : An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Compensation and Benefits-Benefits Better Than Statutory Regulations,  Solid Pension System. Our compensation is above the industry peers, and our benefit program also exceeds statutory requirements. An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Competitive Compensation Package Headcount and average annual compensation of non-corporate executive full-time employees, and year-over-year difference.   Percentage increase in annual total  compensation ratio 102-39 Sustainable Business Practices: Materiality Analysis and Stakeholder Communication List of stakeholder groups  102-40 An Admired Employer: Human Rights-Employee Engagement TSMC values employee opinions/interests and therefore offers several communication channels. The highest-level executives  of the HR organization are responsible for many of the channels, ensuring that matters are handled in an efficient and  confidential manner as we continue to strive towards an open and transparent environment for employees/managers and  colleagues to communicate. Furthermore, TSMC respects employees' right to take part in collective bargaining and peaceful  rallies. In accordance with legal requirements in Taiwan, the Company regularly holds labor-management meetings to brief  employees on Company operations and invite employees to engage in discussions on labor conditions and benefits. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.2.2 Compensation Committee 3.2.4Director and Committees Members' Attendance/ Compensation Committee Meeting Status Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 4.1.12 Compensation to Directors and Profit Sharing to Employees ▪Based on TSMC’s Articles of Incorporation, before paying dividends or bonuses to shareholders, TSMC shall set aside not  more than 0.3% of its annual profit to directors as compensation and not less than 1% to employees as a profit sharing.     ▪TSMC's Articles of Incorporation shall be approved by the shareholders and the annual employees' profit sharing and  directors' compensation will be reported  in the next AGM. ▪TSMC's production is primarly measured in 12-inch wafers. The unit product indicators mentioned in the "A Practitioner of  Green Power" are calculated based on 12-inch equivalent wafers.   ▪Only work-related injuries shall be treated as SR/FR, unrelated injuries in the workplace are not considered. An Admired Employer: Talent Attraction and Retention-Compensation and Benefits-Solid Pension System -Pension Allocation and Preparation TSMC's  defined contribution plan recognized expenses of NT$2,809,484 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2020. TSMC  makes monthly contributions equal to 6% of each employee’s monthly salary in Taiwan. TSMC’s oversea subsidiaries also make  monthly contributions at certain percentages of the basic salary of their employees in accordance with local practices. Financial assistance received from the R.O.C. government: In 2020, TSMC enjoyed a tax benefit of NT$47.1 billion from five-year tax  exemption for capital investments made in previous years. (Our wafer fabs in China received subsidies from the local government,  but according to the agreement, TSMC can not disclose the content and amount.) Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report (II) Financial Statements for detailed information. In 2020, the average overall salary of a TSMC new engineer with a master's degree is more than NT$1.8 million. The salary includes 12-month  base salary, two-month year-end bonus, cash bonus and profit sharing. The average overall salary of direct employees is higher than NT$1  million, which is 4 times of the minimum wage in Taiwan. For the non-TSMC employee workers, TSMC requests their companies that the compensation paid to their workers shall comply with all  applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated benefits. In the 2020 TSMC Annual Report, 2.5.1 Information Regarding Management Team, we disclosed that 19 out of 25 members of the  management team are local, accounting for 76.0%. Definition:  Senior management: management team is disclosed in 2020 TSMC Annual Report, 2.5.1 Information Regarding Management Team Local: defined by nationality Important base: defined as where the headquarter located and where the majority of employees work. Power to Change Society: TSMC Charity Foundation. Contents including donation, in-kind giving, construction services, repair  services, volunteers services, etc. In total, TSMC deployed 281 distinct process technologies, and manufactured 11,617 products for 510 customers in 2020 to continue  to bring significant contribution to the advancement of modern society. TSMC assesses anti-corruption risk by function rather than by geographical region since more than 90% of TSMC employees work in Taiwan.   Based on the TSMC core value of Integrity, our anti-corruption risk assessment incorporates applicable regulations, classifies corruption by type,  accounts for our business operation procedures and specifications, requires full compliance and implementation by all employees, mandates  annual self-assessments and examinations, and establishes open reporting channels (internal and external) and whistleblower protection. An  objective of our anti-corruption risk assessment is to detect abnormal incidents early and effectively prevent the occurrence of corruption.  Based on TSMC 2020’s training regimes and awareness campaign, employee ethics survey, annual CSA (Control Self-Assessment) Reports  received from each division, and a review of the reported anti-corruption incidents from our reporting channels and the results of subsequent  investigations thereto, our corruption risk is appropriately controlled and no significant corruption risk was identified. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 3.6 Regulatory Compliance Integrity is the most important value of TSMC's culture. TSMC publises the "TSMC Anti-Corruption Commitment" to reiterate that  TSMC take a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, meanwhile elaborating the regulations regarding avoiding conflicts of  interest, political and charitable contributions, and whistleblower channel. Please refer to our website. TSMC provides anti-corruption and ethics training when each new colleague. For the current colleagues, TSMC provides a variety  of training courses in the form of face-to-face courses, communication meetings, online compulsory and elective courses,  and provides regulatory compliance guidelines and FAQs through the factory posters, company's internal website, internal  e-mails, and education propaganda articles, etc., to ensure colleagues access to new knowledge of regulations and deepen their  knowledge of various issues.  In 2020, TSMC provided current colleagues with "Annual Ethics and Compliance Training Course"(mandatory 0.5 hour online  course). The completion rate of each operating base is as follows: 99.7% in Taiwan, and Asian regions outside Taiwan (Mainland,  Japan, South Korea), North America (U.S., Canada), and Europe are all 100%. Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  3.2.1 Audit Committee  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  3.6 Regulatory Compliance Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  3.5 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  6.3.3 Operational Risks/Risks Associated with Litigious and Non-litigious Matters The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) developed a country-by-country reporting system in which  the Taiwan R.O.C. government participates. This reporting process was developed in part to aid tax authorities in their audit selection  processes. Under the OECD agreement, this reporting information is kept with tax authorities who have the tax expertise to understand  and assess this business-sensitive tax information. TSMC supports the business information provided as part of the country-by- country reporting system remaining exclusively with government tax authorities. A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management - Increase Energy Efficiency Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 7.2.2 Sustainable Products Reductions in energy requirements of  products and services 302-5 A Practitioner of Green Power: Water Management-Risk Management of Water Resources It is necessary to disclose the proportion of the water withdrawal to the total water withdrawal of the water area in the high or  extremely high water stress risk area according to the World Resources Institute (WRI) water stress evaluation. TSMC (China) is  a high-risk area of water stress. Its water withdrawal area is the Jinze Reservoir, which supplies 2.56 million tons per day. TSMC  (China) uses 0.6 million tons of water per day, accounting for 0.2% of its water withdrawal area. A Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management-GHG Reduction Best Practices, GHG Emissions  InventoryA Practitioner of Green Power: Climate Change and Energy Management-Expanding Usage of Renewable Energies Reduction of GHG emissions 305-5 TSMC does not use Motreal Protocol restricted ODS. Emissions of ozone-depleting  substances (ODS) 305-6 Company has no significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance of environmental laws and regulations 2020. Non-compliance with environmental  laws and regulations 307-1 A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management-2020 Goals and Achievements  100% new suppliers compliant and signed "TSMC ethics and supplier code of conduct" New suppliers that were screened using  environmental criteria 308-1 Negative environmental impacts in the  supply chain and actions taken 308-2 Emissions in 2020: NOX: 170.36 tons SOX: 38.13 tons TSMC requires suppliers to meet its sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes  environmental impact issues, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire. In 2020,  a total of 1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2020. If the  supplier has potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. Note: TSMC provides localized leave and insurance programs to employees in overseas regions. We grant additional days of annual leave to  employees in Taiwan, China, North America and Europe. As for insurance programs, the comprehensive life and medical insurance programs are  also designed in consideration of local regulations, industry practices and local conditions for each overseas region. In order to implement occupational safety and health management and control, TSMC established an executive organization with the  division of roles and responsibilities. In response to the requirements and expectations of TSMC from internal and external stakeholders,  in 2020, in addition to continuing to improve the existing safety culture promotion and risk management measures and in response  to expansion plans, the number of contractors entering TSMC has reached 39,470 people per day. TSMC has standardized contractor  operational safety and health management procedures, established the "Contractor Environmental Safety and Health Blue Book",  strengthened the safety management system, and cooperated with contractors to create a safe and friendly environment. The corporate- level Safety and Health Committee is hosted by the Corporate ESH Director, percentage of total workforce represented is 44%. The definition for occupational accidents is in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act and important disabling injury  indicators issued by the Global Reporting Initiative which uses Disabling Severity Rate (SR) and Disabling Injury Frequency Rate (FR) as primary  indicators. In 2020, TSMC reviewed the Occupational Safety and Health Act stipulating that only work-related injuries shall be counted towards  SR/ FR. Other non-work injuries such as falling in the cafeteria or parking lot due to other reasons shall not be counted towards occupational  injuries but should be investigated and resolved. Employee vacation, medical insurance, and insurance shall remain the same. In 2020, there  were 43 disabling injuries among employees with 422 working days lost. Of the 43 disabling injuries, 29 were from men with 308 working days  lost and 14 were from women with 114 working days lost. Men suffered from a higher number of work-related disabling injuries and working  days lost than women did. Aside from falling, the main causes were crushing injuries, cuts, scrapes, and punctures during maintenance.  Improvement measures include: Implemented LOTO (Lock out Tag out) measures that require employees to lock out and tag out all moving  parts during maintenance. In 2020, 2,577 operations were completed and added to the Maintenance Procedures. Safety and health training  materials now contain chapters on when and how to use protective gear for cuts/scrapes/punctures. ▪Approximately 90% of TSMC employees are located in Taiwan. Overseas employees are mostly located in Asia, which is only 6.9% of all  employees; the proportion of other regions is lower.   ▪In 2020, to align with the Company’s growth, TSMC expanded recruitment and introduced 7,322 new hires in Taiwan and 8,193 new  hires around the world. Among them, 79.5% of all new hires are below the age of 30. ▪Any significant issues and changes will be announced in quarterly meetings. Extraordinary meetings may be held when necessary. ▪If the employment relationship with some employees needs to be terminated due to major operational changes, the Company will notify  employees in advance abide by the law. TSMC's occupational health risk management plan covers both occupational hazards (Including the five major hazards:  chemical, physical, ergonomic, social/ psychological, and biological) and personal health (including pregnancy, poor  cerebrovascular/ cardiovascular functions, muscle and bones, stress management, etc.), which need to be improved to  protect employees’ health. In accordance with legal regulations on occupational safety and health, all employees involved  in operations with special health examination, a total of 4,753 individuals, completed 100% special health examinations. ▪Although it does not provide transition assistance programs for "employees who have ended their careers due to  retirement or termination of employment relationships", the company's "talent development" goals have always been  focused on ensuring that employees can keep up with the times to support the companie's long-term growth and  meeting the needs of employees for lifelong learning. In other words, as long as employees continue to learn step by  step under the company’s talent development system, they will be well prepared for their career development after  leaving the job.   ▪If employees who are leaving the company have individual needs, they can also get professional counseling services  in psychological, legal and financial aspects through "Consultation and Consultation" Please refer to 2020 TSMC Annual Report:  2.4.1 Information Regarding Board Members  TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group of professionals from different backgrounds in industries, academia, law, etc.  These professionals include citizens from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class business operating experience, one of  whom is female (the ratio is 10%). Based on individual job requirements, performance assessment results (The performance appraisal was conducted in the middle  of the year and at the end of the year, and the assessment rate was 100% in 2019), and career development needs, the employees of  TSMC set up their own individual development plans (IDP), which are part of the basis of the company's annual training plan. TSMC's Board is comprised of a diverse group of professionals from different backgrounds in industries, academia, law, etc.  These professionals include citizens from Taiwan, Europe and the U.S. with world-class business operating experience.  In 2020, a total of 8,193 employees were hired, including members of younger generations, overseas elites, and the physically and  mentally handicapped. ▪Establish a number of channels for employees' feedback, many of which are checked by the top human resources  organization and handled in a fast and confidential manner. We are committed to providing an open and transparent  communication environment for supervisors, colleagues, and peers.   ▪The company respects the rights of all employees to organize and participate in the trade union of their choice, collective  bargaining, and participation in peaceful assemblies. It also respects the right of employees to avoid such activities. As of  now (including 2020), no employees have come forward to organize trade unions. A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management-Sustainability Risk Management TSMC requires suppliers to meet its sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes  workers freedom of association or group consensus, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment  questionnaire. In 2020, a total of 1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were  collected in the 2020. If the supplier has potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to TSMC Human Rights Policy and Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct. We treat all workers, including regular, contract, and temporary employees, and interns, with dignity  and respect, and reduce every kind of risk to protect our employees. More details on TSMC Human Rights Policy TSMC requires suppliers to meet sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes a no  child labor policy, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire. In 2020, a total of  1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2020. If the supplier  has potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. An Admired Employer: Human Rights TSMC abides by local laws and regulations, and take actions according to "TSMC Human Rights Policy" and "Responsible Business  Alliance Code of Conduct".    ▪ Formulate implementation policies and management methodsEach site of operations has a dedicated unit to form a "planning,  execution, inspection, and action" cycle   ▪ Each site of operations has a dedicated unit to form a "planning, execution, inspection, and action" cycle ▪ Formulate "Working Hours Management Measures" that comply with laws and regulations. Except for the unanimous agreement  of   supervisors and colleagues, overtime pay or compensatory time off is required to extend working hours.   ▪ In addition to setting up a reminder function for supervisors and employees in the "attendance system and overtime reporting  system", and reviewing and controlling them month by month, they also carefully check their opinions and complaints ▪ Use the standardized risk assessment template (SAQ) designed by the "Responsible Business Alliance" to identify the highest  social, environmental and moral risks in the business   ▪ Entrust a third-party organization with special training in social and environmental audits to continuously implement the  "Verification Audit Process" (VAP) of the Responsible Business Alliance for all fabs   ▪ The results of the evaluation in 2020 are the same as those in the past few years, and both are in a "low risk" state A Responsible Purchaser: Supplier Sustainability Management-Sustainability Risk Management TSMC requires suppliers to meet the sustainability standards through the "TSMC Supplier Code of Conduct", which includes a no  bonded labor policy, and requires Tier 1 suppliers to complete a sustainability self-assessment questionnaire. In 2020, a total of  1,144 responses to the questionnaire (including operating units in Taiwan and China) were collected in the 2020. If the supplier has  potential risks, they will be required to follow up with improvement. In 2020, TSMC continued to construct new facilities in Taiwan. Taiwan has a high evaluation of international human rights  appraisal, and has no significant issues on this topic 412-3 Significant investment agreements  and contracts that include human  rights clauses or that underwent  human rights screening Not applicable Incidents of non-compliance  concerning the safety and health  impacts of products and services An Innovation Pioneer: Customer Service-customer's Virtual Fab (no customer complaints regarding information leakage) Substantiated complaints  concerning breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer data Company has no significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance in social and economic areas in 2020 Non-compliance with laws and  regulations in the social and  economic area There is no significant safety and health impacts for the products and services that TSMC provided to customers. Assessment of the health and  safety impacts of product and  service categories ▪In 2020, TSMC provided employees with a total of 93,822 hours of human rights protection training. In total, 55,031 employees  (107,057 person-time employees) completed the training program, accounting for 96.8% of TSMC's total employees Note: TSMC's climate change management framework is presented in accordance with "Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures". ▪ Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee: The Energy  Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee is the Company's  management organization for taking action on climate change risk and  opportunity. It is chaired by the Senior Vice President of Fab Operations.  Every quarter, this Committee formulates management plans, reviews  implementation status, and discusses future plans. ▪ RM Steering Committee: The RM Steering Committee reports to the Audit  Committee annually on the risk environment, primary risk management  items, risk assessment, and response measures. The Audit Committee then  reports and discusses major items with the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors regularly reviews risks and opportunities related to climate  change. ▪ ESG Steering Committee: The ESG Steering Committee is TSMC's top  organization in climate change management. The ESG Steering Committee  is chaired by the Chairman of TSMC, and the chair of the ESG Committee  serves as the executive secretary. It reviews TSMC's climate change strategies  and goals every six months and reports to the Board of Directors. (The CSR  Executive Committee was renamed as the ESG Steering Committee in 2021  and the meeting frequency has increased from biannually to quarterly) ▪ The Chair of the RM Steering Committee gave an annual report to the Audit  Committee/Board of Directors on water, energy risks, renewable energy demands,  and other topics related to climate change. ▪ The ESG Steering Committee is comprised of senior executives from various TSMC  organizations and formulates long-term 2030 goals and development strategies for  climate change and renewable energies. For more details, please refer to the ESG  Management Platform section of this report. ▪ The executive secretary of the ESG Steering Committee reported to the Board and  received support on sustainable development strategies and progress for green  manufacturing, joining the RE100, purchasing renewable energies, long-term goals,  and other related projects. (The reporting frequency has been increased from  biannually to quarterly since 2021.) ▪ The Energy Saving and Carbon Emission Reduction Committee defined five major  energy conservation teams for different process technologies to conserve more  energy from production equipment and fab facilities. As an incentive for the energy  conservation teams, the Energy-Saving and Carbon Reduction Committee awarded  Energy Conservation Model Awards and Energy Conservation Innovation Awards  according to the teams' success with energy conservation targets and innovative ideas. ▪ The Committee also carried out 460 energy-saving measures across 8 different  categories and was able to conserve an additional 500 GWh in energy consumption.  For more details, please refer to the Increase Energy Efficiency section of this report. ▪ Based on the 2-degree scenario of global warming set forth by the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the committee analyzed climate risks in production  & operation processes and formulated mitigation measures in compliance with the  Climate Risk Adaptation Standards; also established TSMC's climate change strategy  to strive towards Net Zero Emission. ▪ According to interdepartmental discussions on climate risks and opportunities, the  Committee identified 8 opportunities and 11 risks. For more details, please refer to  the Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Matrix section of this report. ▪ Completed qualitative assessment on the financial impact of climate risk and  opportunities and formulated risk mitigation measures accordingly (for more details,  please refer to the Financial Impact Analysis of Climate Change section of this report); also  implemented quantitative assessment of the financial impact from major climate risks. ▪ Held TCFD workshops and, through interdepartmental discussions, jointly identified,  prioritized, and assessed the financial impact of climate risks/opportunities.     ▪ Reported the assessment results of the climate risk/opportunities and relevant action  plans to the ESG Committee Chair.    ▪ For more details, please refer to the 6.3 Risk Management section in the 2020 TSMC  Annual Report . ▪ Established the following as climate change performance indicators: GHG emissions  per unit product, environmental footprint per unit product, amount of renewable  energy purchased, total amount of electricity saved, improved production efficiency,  and days of production interruption due to climate disasters. For more details,  please refer to the Climate Change and Energy Management Strategies, Goals, and  Outcomes section of this report. ▪ In accordance with carbon inventory results, the risks of Scope 1 emissions were  reduced effectively because of continuous implementation of carbon reduction actions;  the risk of Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions due to electricity consumption and the risk of  Scope 3 due to supplier indirect emissions continue to increase. For more details, please  refer to the Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Inventory section of this report.   ▪ Set climate change and energy management goals for 2030 in accordance with climate  change performance indicators; senior executives performed regular reviews on  implementation performance. For more details, please refer to the section entitled  Climate Change and Energy Management Strategies, Goals, and Achievements and  GHG Reduction Best Practices sections of this report. TC-SC-320a.2 TC-SC-320a.1 TC-SC-150a.1 Quantitative TC-SC-130a.1 Quantitative TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion and Analysis TC-SC-140a.1 Quantitative TC-SC-110a.1 Quantitative A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer ▪60,908,400 Gigajoules   ▪95% of energy consumed was supplied from grid electricity   ▪7.3% of energy consumed was renewable energy Materials  Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 TC-SC-410a.1 TC-SC-410a.2 TC-SC-330a.1 TC-SC-520a.1 A Practitioner of Green Power A Responsible Purchaser An Admired Employer Power to Change Society An Innovation Pioneer ▪0.16 % Quantitative ▪TSMC is working with customers to innovate with new  generations of chips and create more energy efficient  electronic products. Please see Sustainable Products by  TSMC Facilitates Global Energy Conservation ▪Please see 2020 TSMC Annual Report: 6.3.3 Operational  Risks/ Risks Associated with Litigious and Non-litigious  Matters Advanced Backend Fab 2  1-1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C. R&D Center & Fab 12B  168, Park Ave. 2, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-091, Taiwan, R.O.C. Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-6687827 Fab 6  1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C. Fab 3  9, Creation Rd. 1, Hsinchu Science Park,  Hsinchu 300-092, Taiwan, R.O.C. Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-5781548 Fab 8  25, Li-Hsin Rd., Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-094, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-5662051 Fab 2, Fab 5 121, Park Ave. 3, Hsinchu Science Park,  Hsinchu 300-096, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-5781546 Corporate Headquarters & Fab 12A               8, Li-Hsin Rd. 6, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-096, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-5637000 Advanced Backend Fab 1   6, Creation Rd. 2, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-093, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-5773628 Fab 15B  1, Xinke Rd., Central Taiwan Science Park,    Taichung 407-728, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel: +886-4-27026688  Fax: +886-4-24630372 Fab 18  8, Beiyuan Rd. 2, Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 745-093, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-6-5056688  Fax: +886-6-5050363 Fab 14B 17, Nan-Ke 9th Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-6-5056688  Fax: +886-6-5055217 Fab 14A 1-1, Nan-Ke North Rd., Southern Taiwan Science Park,  Tainan 741-014, Taiwan, R.O.C.   Tel: +886-6-5056688  Fax: +886-6-5051262 Fab 15A 1, Keya Rd. 6, Central Taiwan Science Park,    Taichung 428-303, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel: +886-4-27026688  Fax: +886-4-25607548 Advanced Backend Fab 3  101, Longyuan 6th Rd., Longtan Dist.,   Taoyuan City 325-002, Taiwan, R.O.C  Tel: +886-3-5636688  Fax: +886-3-4804250 Advanced Backend Fab 5  5, Keya W. Rd., Central Taiwan Science Park,   Taichung 428-303, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel: +886-4-27026688  Fax: +886-4-25609631 TSMC Korea Limited 15F, AnnJay Tower, 208, Teheran-ro,   Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06220, Korea  Tel: +82-2-20511688   TSMC China Company Limited 4000, Wen Xiang Road, Songjiang,   Shanghai, China (Postcode: 201616)  Tel: +86-21-57768000  Fax: +86-21-57762525  TSMC Europe B.V. World Trade Center, Zuidplein 60, 1077 XV   Amsterdam, The Netherlands  Tel: +31-20-3059900   TSMC North America 2851 Junction Avenue,   San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A Tel: +1-408-3828000  Fax: +1-408-3828008 TSMC Japan Limited 21F, Queen's Tower C, 2-3-5, Minatomirai,    Nishi-ku Yokohama, Kanagawa, 220-6221, Japan  Tel: +81-45-6820670   TSMC Nanjing Company Limited  16, Zifeng Road, Pukou Economic Development Zone,  Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China (Postcode: 211806)   Tel: +86-25-57668000  Fax: +86-25-57712395 VisEra Technologies Company Limited 12, Dusing Rd. 1, Hsinchu Science Park,   Hsinchu 300-096, Taiwan, R.O.C.  Tel: +886-3-666-8788  Fax:+886-3-666-2858 WaferTech L.L.C.  5509 N.W. Parker Street Camas,    WA 98607-9299 U.S.A.  Tel: +1-360-8173000  Fax: +1-360-8173009 TSMC Arizona Corporation 2510 W. Dunlap Avenue,   #600, Phoenix, AZ 85021, U.S.A.  Tel: +1-602-567-1688   TSMC Design Technology Japan, Inc.  10F, Minatomirai Grand Central Tower, 4-6-2, Minatomirai,  Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 220-0012, Japan  Tel: +81-45-6644500   TSMC Design Technology Canada Inc.  535 Legget Dr., Suite 600, Kanata,   ON K2K 3B8, Canada  Tel: +613-576-1990  Fax: +613-576-1999 TSMC Technology, Inc  2851 Junction Avenue,   San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A. Tel: +1-408-3828000