When I wrote the introduction to last year’s  Living Progress Report, the COVID-19  pandemic was in its early stages, but it was  already apparent that it would have a huge  global impact. What we saw over the course  of the year reaffirmed our prediction:   that digital transformation is the critical  backbone of a modern enterprise. We quickly realized that to support the  urgent IT needs of our enterprise customers  during the pandemic, we first needed to  protect our people and fully enable our  business operations to perform in a new,  remote working environment. Our team members are our greatest strength and we have long  been committed to their health and safety. Protecting our close  to 60,000 team members during the pandemic and supporting  their transition to working from home were natural expressions of  our long-standing values. We provided a comprehensive support  package, including COVID-19 testing and treatment, additional  paid sick leave, and enhanced childcare and wellness benefits. I am  humbled by our team members’ dedication, flexibility, and creativity  in maintaining seamless service levels and standards for our  customers in the most difficult and unfamiliar of working situations. While the pandemic changed where and how we work, the  significant events associated with social injustice in 2020 also  created a permanent change within our company. We re-evaluated  assumptions that we understood inclusion and operated  without racial bias. We dedicated the rest of 2020 to listening,  making change, and holding ourselves accountable, beginning  with a series of Listening Sessions to inform our actions by  hearing stories, experiences, and feedback from our Black and  African American team members, as well as from other ethnically  diverse employee groups. The resulting actions included a new Inclusion and Diversity Council  consisting of executives and team members from across our  businesses, which I chair. We also made a commitment to train all  of our leaders on inclusion and to increase diversity in management  in 2021 and again in 2022. Despite facing significant adversity in 2020, our team members  remained more engaged than ever before, with an engagement  score of 83% in our annual survey. In 2020, the sudden impact of COVID-19 highlighted the central  role of IT in restoring a resilient society. As customers around  the world grappled with digitizing their businesses, enabling a  remote workforce, and operating with constrained budgets, HPE  was poised to support their evolving needs. We were already  well-advanced in our strategy to deliver our entire portfolio as  a service by 2022 through a range of subscription, pay-per-use,  and consumption-driven offerings. We proved the value of our  consumption-based approach by enabling our customers to focus  on innovation and modernizing their infrastructure without the  capital and operational expenses of traditional IT ownership nor  the power and cooling limitations typically faced by organizations  rapidly scaling their digital operations. The pandemic dramatically accelerated the existing pace of digital  transformation. Our customers called for a rapid expansion of secure  connectivity and unprecedented access to data analytics to maintain  their operations. We played a key role in enabling business and  social sectors to adapt to dramatically different operating realities  and challenges. Fast, agile, resilient, and cost-effective IT has eased the disruption  of the pandemic for businesses, schools, and everyday life. Hospitals  and other healthcare providers have continued functioning with  remote employees and patients. Schools and colleges transitioned  to online education. Thousands of businesses were able to maintain  their operations with employees at home. And our supercomputing  leadership contributed to the rapid discovery of vaccines and  treatments. As technology adoption continues to accelerate, I  believe we are entering an Age of Insight, characterized by data analysis that will generate insights and discoveries that were  never possible before. The pandemic has accelerated existing trends in which HPE was  already deeply immersed. These include connecting dispersed  operations and data sources with edge-to-cloud converged systems  and leveraging newly accessible data sources with penetrating  actionable analysis. We are focused on delivering this digital  transition with as-a-service models, state-of-the-art security,  and low-carbon footprint built in. A new era defined by deeper, faster insights is fueling discoveries  that benefit society and raise the standard of living for people  everywhere. Critical issues in medicine, education, climate change,  and food production are being solved more quickly than ever  before. It’s up to leaders in business and government to channel  the benefits for the good of everyone, not just the wealthiest few. Making technologies such as high performance computing available  in our as-a-service model is a small step toward democratization of  the latest IT technology. Where previously only large corporations  had access to cutting-edge IT, now many smaller enterprises  can benefit. Similarly, I believe that access to connectivity is  the foundation for digital inclusion, facilitating participation in critical  services like remote learning or telemedicine. Although companies  like HPE responded to the pandemic by offering Wi-Fi hotpots  in buses, parking lots, and even a passenger ferry, these are all  temporary solutions. Longer term, we must provide connectivity  that is seamless, ubiquitous, and secure, where people need it most. The challenges of 2020 have reinvigorated our commitment to  being a force for good, using our technology to advance the way  people live and work. As I look back on HPE’s five-year history, I am  proud that we have stayed focused on our customers’ needs and our  commitment to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The credit  for that belongs to our HPE team members around the globe. Living Progress is HPE’s business strategy   for creating sustainable IT solutions that meet  the technology demands of the future, while  advancing the way people live and work. This  strategy underpins our commitment to the  environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  factors most important to our business and  our stakeholders. We take an ESG lens to the decisions we  make every day as a company. It guides  our value of being an unconditionally  inclusive organization and our commitment  to equity, for our team members and our  communities. It is also helping us become  more climate-resilient, enabling HPE and our  customers to thrive in a low-carbon future.  Our edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service A legacy of ESG leadership increases our  competitiveness and differentiates us in the  marketplace by helping our customers achieve  their business objectives and sustainability  goals, with no compromises. Our products and strategy helps our customers transform and  digitize their businesses while reducing our  environmental footprint and expanding access  to game-changing technologies. services enable customers to unlock previously  untapped data resources at an unprecedented  rate to tackle social and environmental  challenges across industries such as healthcare,  manufacturing, finance, agriculture, and  more. Together, we are shaping a sustainable  and equitable future. The webcast, hosted by Morgan Stanley, was attended by more  than 60 individuals from dozens of investment organizations.  HPE presented an overview of our sustainability initiatives and  performance, highlighting how these translate to business value.  We explained the alignment between sustainability and HPE’s  pivot to an as-a-service business, which we believe had not yet  been fully appreciated by ESG investors. Sustainability performance has become a core business discipline within  HPE. Our Living Progress program is an increasingly powerful component  of our relationships with customers and investors. Our sustainability  credentials provide a competitive advantage, support talent acquisition  and retention, and ensure ongoing access to global markets. HPE aims to maximize investment from funds that emphasize  ESG performance—and to be transparent in our disclosures  to them. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, we maintained  our ESG investor engagements in 2020, responding to  select investor questionnaires, and holding a multi-investor  webcast in July. 2020 is the third year that we have followed the guidelines of  the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  to model the potential future financial impact of climate change  on our business. Our analysis, shared in our TCFD Index,  suggests that the business opportunities from developing  technology solutions for a low-carbon economy will significantly  outweigh negative impacts on our business. We calculate our  clean revenue figures annually, and in 2020, we published a  technical white paper outlining our methodology for these  calculations. This publication provided transparency about  our own calculations and encouraged our industry to adopt a  consistent approach to defining and measuring low-carbon IT. The number and complexity of requests for ESG disclosure  continues to multiply. We have therefore prioritized the top  12 organizations, systematically assessing their feedback with  the aim of improving our disclosures year over year. HPE is  included in the following rankings: In total, in 2020, our sustainability engagement reached  customers representing $2.7 billion in revenue. We estimate  that these engagements helped drive approximately  $847 million in net revenue, an increase of almost 45%  over the previous year. In one significant example, our  sustainability engagement with multinational chemical company  LyondellBasell sealed one of HPE’s first data center-as-a-service  contracts and our largest HPE GreenLake deal at the time. HPE is working to ensure the company is well positioned  to emerge stronger, more agile, and digitally enabled for a  post-COVID-19 world. On May 19, 2020, the HPE Board of  Directors approved a cost optimization and prioritization plan  in order to focus our investments, realign our workforce to  areas of growth, and simplify and evolve our product portfolio  strategy, go-to-market configurations, supply chain structures,  digital customer support model, marketing experiences,  and real estate strategies. Further information is available in  our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Interest in sustainability from private and public sectors  continues to increase, with more than 1,600 inquiries  received by HPE this year. Although COVID-19 curtailed  in-person engagements, we and our customers adapted  to videoconference meetings without any negative impact.  Shorter video briefings were more efficient and, in some cases,  attracted executives from our senior leadership. “From the beginning of our engagement  with LyondellBasell, we knew sustainability  was a top priority for their CEO. Our ability  to offer an environmentally sustainable  solution set us apart. With consulting for  HPE Pointnext Services, they are adopting a  hybrid cloud model under HPE GreenLake  that will enable them to drive environmental  efficiency and digital transformation.” “We have a longstanding relationship,  collaborating to demonstrate how business  and sustainability objectives can support   each other to progress toward a circular  economy. Most recently, HPE and BT  partnered to implement HPE Certified  Pre-owned IT equipment to extend the  life of our legacy systems and to measure  the impact and savings achieved.” The trend of increasing interest in sustainability was most  evident in Europe and North America. In Europe, our strongest  markets for sustainability were the Nordic countries, the UK,  Germany, France, and Switzerland. Customers engaging on  sustainability were prominent in technology services and  software, financial services, telecoms and media, retail, utilities,  and healthcare. Our sales teams capitalize on market signals by tailoring our  sustainability engagements to individual customer needs. We  focus on demonstrating how our IT efficiency and circularity  capabilities benefit their operations, deliver cost savings, and  overcome business challenges. For example, HPE’s as-a-service portfolio helps eliminate  IT inefficiency by avoiding excess capacity and the associated  environmental impacts—potentially yielding 30% CapEx  savings2 for customers. We are responding to the COVID-19 pandemic  with initiatives to stabilize communities,  support customers tackling unprecedented  challenges, and provide technology   to help organizations adapt and recover. The COVID-19 pandemic has been  unprecedented in its scale and impact,  necessitating a comprehensive and ongoing  response to adapt to an uncertain future. HPE’s Business Continuity Program integrates  continuity planning into our normal business  processes. In early February 2020, at the  onset of the pandemic, HPE activated our  Crisis Management Teams (CMTs) across all  countries and, shortly thereafter, activated  the Corporate CMT as well as deployed  a specialized COVID-19 CMT to support  24x7 decision-making. This team included  representatives from HPE’s Global Security,  Human Resources, Legal, Global Operations,  Corporate Communications, Global Real Estate,  and Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S)  organizations. From March through December  2020, the CMTs issued 66 Situation Reports  to senior leadership and stakeholders and,  to date, all 53 of these CMTs remain active. In addition, our Board and its committees have  overseen HPE’s crisis management policies  and response, holding 10 off-cycle meetings  from March through December. HPE’s highly resilient and diversified financial  model limits our exposure to the industries  and smaller enterprises hardest hit by the  pandemic. Although the COVID-19 outbreak  disrupted our supply chain processes and  created a delivery backlog, our robust  continuity plans and long-term agreements  with key suppliers allowed us to clear our  backlog by the end of Q4 2020, and bring our  total revenue back to pre-pandemic levels. Long before COVID-19, HPE took steps  to diversify our supply chain, and we are  working closely with more than 200 suppliers  to optimize how we build and distribute  our products. We remain committed to  upholding human rights in our supply chain  and have taken many steps, in partnership  with our suppliers, to help protect vulnerable  worker populations and strengthen our  suppliers’ resilience. As the impacts of COVID-19 reverberate  across the globe, we see a tremendous need  and responsibility to support a sustainable  recovery by delivering solutions that  advance IT resiliency, provide supply chain  transparency, empower remote workforces,  extend connectivity, reinvigorate customer  engagement, and help organizations  retool their business models. To this end,  HPE CEO Antonio Neri is chairing the World  Economic Forum’s CEO Champions group  on Accelerating Digital Transformation  in a post-COVID-19 world, working with  cross-industry leaders and experts to provide  new frameworks and toolkits to enable large  and small organizations alike to transform their  businesses with people and planet in mind. HPE is proud to be a force for good in even  the most trying of times—using our time,  talent, and technology to help mitigate  the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Through an HPE Gives matching campaign  and other philanthropic, community-based  initiatives, our team members have together  contributed $27 million in cash and products  to organizations aiding those most at risk  during these difficult times. This included  the donation of secure connectivity kits from  Aruba to provision schools, pop-up clinics,  testing sites, and temporary hospital facilities  across the globe. HPE is supporting critical COVID-19 research  by partnering with the White House in a  COVID-19 High Performance Computing  (HPC) consortium, joining other industry  and academic organizations to provide  supercomputing software and applications  expertise free of charge to support researchers.  We are also facilitating the work of some of the  world’s leading research centers, including the  U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National  Laboratory and Oak Ridge National Laboratory,  by enabling them to run simulations on our  HPC solutions to better understand the strains  of the virus and develop drug treatments.  In addition, HPE signed the Open COVID  Pledge, granting free access to our patented  technologies for the purpose of diagnosing,  preventing, containing, and treating COVID-19. We have a long history of supporting our  partners and customers through difficult times,  and HPE stands ready to help with expertise,  financial flexibility, and edge-to-cloud solutions  that are helping our customers maintain  business continuity and enable secure and  productive operations from distributed and  remote locations. The demand for innovation and agility from  IT is at a fever pitch, clearly accelerated by  COVID-19; yet, many businesses faced an  immediate need to preserve cash flow, defer  or reduce expenses, and relieve capacity  strains and delivery delays. They also needed  to quickly explore different options to help  them thrive over the long term in the new  business landscape. In April 2020, HPE Financial Services (HPEFS)  announced more than $2 billion in financing,  specifically earmarked to help customers with  their challenges stemming from the COVID-19  crisis. We developed several programs to  respond to these liquidity and capacity crises,  including a Payment Relief Program to help  customers acquire new technology and reduce  cash outlays until 2021, an Accelerated  Migration program to convert existing IT  assets into an incremental cash source, and  Certified Pre-Owned technology offerings with  ready-to-ship inventory. Beyond these new programs, HPEFS  accelerated the speed of its data-cleansing  process at our global renewal centers. This  enabled badly needed tech to be redeployed  as quickly as possible. In addition, HPEFS  created a new protocol for processing  assets returned to our renewal centers by  employees who were now working from  home. An example of HPEFS’s response to  this unprecedented challenge is captured in  a case study for Nationwide, one of the UK’s  largest financial institutions. Other programs supported by HPEFS include  HPE GreenLake Cloud Services, which helps  organizations conserve capital and manage  cash flow by delivering on-premises solutions  as a service, thereby enabling them to pay for  only the IT they use. The rapid shift to remote working posed  significant obstacles for enterprises, challenging  them not only to provide more connectivity  and equipment capacity but also to ensure the  security of their networks, data, and devices in  a highly distributed environment. In response,  HPE deployed a portfolio of solutions for  remote access to corporate resources through  Virtual Desktop Infrastructure that can be  implemented quickly and scaled rapidly, as well  as remote productivity expertise provided by  HPE Pointnext Services to help organizations  adapt their technology and workforce to new  ways of working. In addition, first responders, healthcare  providers, and other industries on the  frontlines urgently needed more capacity to  meet surging demand, often in new, remote,  or temporary locations. Our Aruba Remote  Access Points saw a double-digit increase in  demand, allowing organizations to extend their  network and corporate resources to remote  workers with secure, seamless connectivity.  For instance, Aruba enabled Vancouver Clinic  to fast-track two networking-centric initiatives  in the wake of the pandemic: establishing a  telemedicine program, from scratch, in less  than a week, and expanding a virtual call center  for frontline employees to enable many of  them to work from home during the outbreak.  In Italy, our Aruba team stepped up to help  Grandi Navi Veloci rapidly convert a ferry into  a temporary floating hospital to support as  many as 400 patients. Aruba solutions also supported schools as  they pivoted to hosting distance learning  and administration. Bentonville City Schools  in Arkansas had just one business day to  transition more than 18,000 students and  1,200 teachers to a digital learning platform.  Aruba offered them a turn-key solution  for outdoor Wi-Fi, including free use of  Aruba Central, to quickly configure and blanket  a parking lot with fast, reliable wireless access. The health and well-being of our team  members remains our number one priority.  Since March 2020, the majority of team  members have worked from home, aside from  a small number of team members performing  mission-critical roles on-site with customers,  including those helping set up pop-up hospitals  and healthcare facilities. Based on recommendations and best  practices from public health organizations,  governments, and industry, we have deployed  a Reconstitution and Recovery Plan. We are  taking a voluntary approach to returning to  offices and to the field, taking into account  any local regulations, family obligations, and  health concerns. On HPE premises, physical  distancing and related safety requirements  must be met, office configurations and services  have been adjusted accordingly, and COVID-19  Response Protocols have been implemented.  The resumption of operations, including  reopening or repopulating sites, travel or  off-site events, and other business activities  are aligned with and based on a phased  risk analysis approach. We are taking all appropriate measures to  protect the health and safety of our team  members and their families and have made  education resources, wellness support, and  personal protective supplies available.  In addition, the HPE Executive Committee  held 13 All Team-Member Meetings in 2020  to keep our workforce updated on how the  company is responding to the pandemic  and to answer team-member questions. In response to concerns over the economic  impact of COVID-19, we announced a  long-term cost optimization and prioritization  plan to focus our investments and realign  our workforce to areas of growth while also  adopting short-term cost-saving measures,  including temporary base salary adjustments  or unpaid leave for certain employees, along  with hiring and salary freezes. Salary reductions, which were terminated at the end of the fiscal  year, varied based on the employee level,  with the highest salary pay cuts hitting the  HPE executive team. In the United States,  we discontinued 401(k) contributions for the  remainder of the calendar year. We upheld  our commitment not to impose any layoffs or  furloughs as a direct result of the pandemic,  and we implemented our discretionary  compensation framework to fund employee  bonuses in recognition of our team members’  dedication over the past year. Read more  about Employee development, engagement,  and well-being. HPE doesn’t just cut the environmental impact of our customers’ IT— we radically enhance their capabilities to harness untapped big-data  resources. This new age of insight is accelerating the development  of solutions for complex social and environmental challenges. Whether in medical research, low-carbon technology, food  production, or many other fields, HPE’s partnership is a key  component of our customers’ transition to a sustainable world. The untapped energy of the oceans could  potentially add a significant source of  emissions-free renewable energy to meet  the global demand in a low-carbon world.  Designing and optimizing durable, cost- effective machines to generate energy  from ocean waves is a complex challenge  demanding sophisticated computer modeling. The company is studying wave action to  optimize the design of its floating structures  that will harness energy from waves. This  requires complex analysis of the interaction  between the ocean and the buoy. Big-data  computer modeling is essential to test the  structures and fine-tune the design of the  machine, before building and deploying  in the ocean. Carnegie Clean Energy, an Australian  wave energy technology developer, is well  on its way to making wave power a reality. “The amount of energy landing  on our shores is about five times  what we consume. The science  is clear: The world has to move  toward renewable energy.” The unpredictable nature of waves and the  overall extremes of an ocean environment  make designing an optimum energy-capture  device a complex analytical challenge.  Supercomputing and computational fluid  dynamics are accelerating the design work,  providing better understanding of how extreme  waves affect ocean energy-capture devices  and bringing Carnegie closer to a commercially  viable wave-energy machine. Carnegie teamed up with the Pawsey  Supercomputing Centre in Kensington,  Western Australia, for access to the  HPE Cray XC40 high performance computing  system. The Pawsey Supercomputing Centre  supports researchers with supercomputing,  data, and visualization services across a range  of scientific fields. One of the most pressing challenges facing the  world today is creating a sustainable global  food supply. According to the World Health  Organization (WHO), nearly 800 million people  are chronically undernourished and 2 billion are  micronutrient deficient.3 The food production  system is under stress, with smaller farms  globally in decline due to economic factors.  These problems will significantly worsen  as the World Economic Forum predicts a  population of 9.8 billion by 2050, requiring an  astonishing 70% more food than is consumed  today. Understanding the drivers behind  trends in global food systems is essential to  address causes of biodiversity loss and support  sustainable food systems. Consultive Group for International Agricultural  Research (CGIAR) is a global research  partnership of 134 nonprofit institutes working  in more than 100 countries on research toward  reducing poverty, enhancing food and nutrition  security, and improving natural resources. To further these efforts, CGIAR needs to  generate a real-time picture of what is  happening in areas of significant food  production around the world in order to  detect and predict food security challenges  and guide collective action to solve them.  Enabling food system modeling that will  accelerate these solutions requires data from  multiple sources such as crop performance,  weather records, and economic activity. It also  requires the compute power to quickly analyze  localized information across an array of food  security contexts, many of which have been  impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. HPE collaborated with CGIAR to uncover  insights about food security challenges,  which intensified due to COVID-19. HPE’s  Memory-Driven Computing Sandbox, a new  computing architecture that puts memory,  not processing, at the center of the computing  platform, is delivering faster, more accurate  analysis of the CGIAR data-sets than ever  before, accelerating CGIAR’s ability to  deliver solutions to global food challenges  around the globe. In 2019, Migros’s business grew 23.9%—a  rate of growth that, combined with significant  changes to their workforce due to COVID-19,  overwhelmed their outdated IT infrastructure.  The company needed an IT solution that was  flexible and efficient, allowing it to keep pace  with digitization while using minimal resources. As workforces move to the edge, and resource  limitations are at an all-time high, companies  are faced with growing IT needs in a resource- constrained environment. Migros Ticaret is one of the largest  supermarket chains in Turkey, with more than  2,200 stores and 28 warehouses. The retailer  serves an estimated 160 million customers,  employs more than 45,000 people, and works  with 2,400 suppliers. In an increasingly digital world,  organizations are struggling to scale their  IT capabilities efficiently. This challenge  has become increasingly complex amid the  COVID-19 pandemic. HPE SimpliVity reduced Migros Ticaret’s  operational risks from IT failure and reduced  the IT resources needed to manage the system.  Their infrastructure has been able to seamlessly  scale and respond to evolving needs during  the pandemic, including enabling employees  to work from home, meet growing consumer  needs, and support retail operations 24/7. Migros Ticaret replaced their traditional  storage-server environment with HPE  SimpliVity, a hyperconverged infrastructure  that offers enterprise-class performance,  data protection, and resiliency. In addition to operational benefits,  HPE SimpliVity provided a sustainable IT  solution, resulting in a 70% reduction in  IT energy use and increased virtualization  efficiency ratios for their servers, applications,  desktops, and continual platforms. Our solutions enable customers to transform and digitize their  businesses while lowering costs and minimizing the environmental  footprint of IT. We are accelerating a zero-carbon future, from  shifting toward the use of renewable power to fighting energy and  IT waste through innovative products, services, and business models.  Together with our customers, we unlock the potential of data to  accelerate solutions for a more sustainable world. Our uncompromising pursuit of IT efficiency  produces tech solutions that offer more  possibilities with a smaller environmental impact.  With our innovative products and services, we  transform our customers’ IT infrastructure to  minimize their environmental footprint, optimize  performance, and reduce costs. The number of people and devices connected  to the internet continues to climb. By 2025, an  estimated 61%4 of the world’s population and  41.65 billion Internet of Things (IoT) devices  will be online. The expansion is improving  livelihoods and driving productivity, but we  cannot ignore a fundamental issue: The rapid  growth of the digital universe and its energy  consumption is contributing to climate change.  The electricity consumption of information  and communications technology (ICT), which  includes enterprise IT, is growing between  6% and 9% per year, and the pandemic  has accelerated the digitalization of many  organizations’ operations. of the opportunity, and our concern for the  planet. We work to reduce the carbon footprint  of enterprise IT across its lifecycle, from design  to end-of-use. The use phase, where 80% of  the carbon footprint of compute devices is  generated, is our greatest opportunity. Our customers rely on us to accelerate  their digital transformations in a way that  adds business value while minimizing cost  and environmental impact. Our holistic  IT efficiency framework includes four areas:  energy efficiency, equipment efficiency,  resource efficiency, and software efficiency.  Approximately 50% of HPE’s portfolio has  sustainability and IT efficiency attributes,  representing $8.2 billion in revenue.6 In 2020,  we helped customers make IT efficiency gains  through our as-a-service delivery model, energy  effective technologies, and software solutions. By 2022, HPE will offer its entire portfolio  as a service, with a range of subscription,  pay-per-use, and consumption-driven offerings.  Our as a service delivery model addresses a  challenge many companies face: effectively  managing several divergent IT platforms— some in the cloud, on-premises, and at the  edge. 70%7 of applications remain outside  of the public cloud and by 2023 more than  half of all enterprise data will be created and  processed at the edge.8 HPE GreenLake, our as-a-service offering,  optimizes customer IT estates while executing  an effective hybrid multi-cloud delivery  model. In 2020, an HPE study demonstrated  that HPE GreenLake can reduce energy  consumption by more than 30% compared  to traditional models. It also helps customers  become more efficient by: In 2020, we launched HPE GreenLake Central,  an as-a-service software platform with a single  control pane where customers can manage  their entire IT estate. The platform drives  efficiency through automation, data insights,  and built in compliance and governance tools. The potential of HPE GreenLake is further  magnified when combined with effective  solutions such as consumption-based  composable infrastructure. In one use case,  a customer accessing HPE Synergy  composable infrastructure reduced IT  capital expenditures by 80% and lowered  their carbon footprint by 50%. In order to deliver a cloud experience at  the edge, we launched Aruba ESP in 2020,  which can be consumed either as a service  in the cloud or on-premises, as a managed  service, or via network as a service through  HPE GreenLake. The AIOps capabilities of  Aruba ESP ensure reliable, optimized network  operations by revealing and troubleshooting  issues before they impact the business. In  addition to automation and optimization  benefits of our Network as-a-service solutions,  edge deployments have inherent efficiency  benefits. A fully distributed architecture  requires less data center equipment, cooling  needs, and networks for data transport. On  average, this can consume between 14% and  25% less energy than centralized and partly  distributed architectures, respectively.9 As the digital universe expands, so does the  footprint of the data centers that power it. It  is projected that data centers will consume  3% of global electricity by 202510. We can  minimize the carbon footprint of data centers  by enabling greater energy effectiveness. Our goal is to increase our product energy  performance to 30x our 2015 baseline by  2025. To achieve this goal, we are improving  our existing portfolio and bringing better  products to market each year. In 2020, we  increased our product energy performance  to 3.2x our 2015 baseline and introduced: • HPE HCI 2.0, which disaggregates compute from storage resources, giving IT managers  the ability to adjust one without the other.  In one use case, a customer reduced  operating costs by 50%, improved workload  performance times by 100%, and achieved  50% faster application provisioning. We are increasing the computing capacity  and reliability of high-performance  supercomputers while reducing their energy  consumption. This is critical as the prevalence  of high-performance computers in data centers  grows. The HPE Apollo 2000 Gen10 Plus  system with 2nd generation AMD EPYC™  processors, is the world’s most energy-efficient  multi-node platform having achieved  10 energy-efficiency records and two firsts  on the SPECpower_ssj2008 benchmark. In 2020, HPE’s Cray supercomputers began using ABB’s higher-voltage  direct current power supply solution to increase computing capacity  and reliability. The improved supercomputers are built with fewer raw  materials, have up to 95% fewer power losses, and optimize energy  efficiency through real-time monitoring of computing loads as well  as thermal and power aspects. When combined with ABB Ability™  Data Center Automation, the correlation between workload and CPU  dynamics with cooling of data centers is automated, producing up to  a 30% reduction in energy use. The Modular Supercomputing Facility (MSF), jointly developed by  HPE and NASA, uses supercomputers to support space missions.  NASA’s Aitken supercomputer, powered by HPE, is helping prepare for  a 2024 mission to the moon. During the MSF’s first year of operations,  Aitken consumed only 16% of the energy needed for cooling, saving  over $100,000 in costs and 1.4 million kilowatt-hours of energy. It also  reduced water usage for cooling by 91%, saving over 1 million gallons  of water per day. Software efficiency became the fourth pillar  of our IT Efficiency framework in 2020 and  includes two concepts. First, writing efficient  code and second, using intelligent software to  automate environments, achieve efficiencies,  and improve management practices. Intelligent software is enabled by artificial  intelligence (AI)—a technology that can  increase carbon emissions or eliminate them,  depending on the circumstances. We recognize  that AI requires significant compute power to  train and use large machine-learning models.  To address this challenge, our technologists are  exploring techniques to generate more efficient  machine learning lifecycles, from training to  inference. These techniques include bringing  on partners that are specialized in software  optimization or that can develop hardware to  limit the compute power needed. We are also improving efficiency by integrating  AI into our software offerings. This approach  will help customers complete more work in less  time and reduce the need for overprovisioned  and redundant equipment. In 2020, we  realized efficiency gains through new or  improved software: and reduces storage spend. In 2020, we  announced that, with HPE Infosight as an  embedded AI engine, HPE Primera can now  self-optimize system operations in real-time,  saving up to $1 million in storage spend  and reducing CPU utilization by 50%. management software, has a unified API  that integrates with a broad ecosystem  of third-party management services and  tools. In 2020, we converged a customer’s  IT and OT systems using HPE OneView  and achieved more than $270,000 savings  per 1000m² per year and reduced energy  consumption by more than 20%. DRIVING EFFICIENCY   AND RESILIENCE   AT U.S. DOE WITH   PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS HPE and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) used predictive  analytics and machine learning to optimize power and cooling systems  for the National Renewable Energy Lab (NREL) supercomputer, Eagle.  Eagle is 3.5 times more powerful than NREL’s current system dedicated  to energy research and can capture 97% of its waste heat for re-use in  offices and lab space. The goal of this project was to find further efficiencies by using data  collected from the supercomputers to optimize the energy and water  used to maintain data center operations as well as by implementing  automation. Because a large portion of the carbon footprint is associated  with the operational staff needed, automation can help to significantly  reduce environmental impacts. This effort is part of the HPE and Path Forward partnership working to   accelerate the nation’s tech roadmap for exascale computing sustainably. In 2020, HPE spent $1.9 billion in research  and development, investing in next-generation  technologies including advanced silicon design,  photonics, exascale, and Memory-Driven  Computing. This research offers the potential  to dramatically accelerate processing  while using less energy than current  compute technologies. Engineers and researchers at Hewlett  Packard Labs are delivering new capabilities  through advanced silicon design. Together,  they are designing chips that work better  than general-purpose processors in current  applications such as machine learning and  device-to-device communication. In one  experiment, Labs combined multiple chips in  a single package to achieve high performance  at lower cost and power. The output was a  network switch that delivered industry-leading  capability, cost, performance, and reliability.  It delivers more than 12 terabits per second  of aggregate bandwidth using 45% less power. Our approach to product lifecycle management  enables us to deliver superior design of solutions  and business models to our customers, lowering  their power and resource consumption, reducing  waste, and recovering end-of-use value. At HPE, our approach to the circular economy  has many on-ramps, allowing customers to  partake in its financial and environmental  benefits at various stages in the lifecycle.  The customer use-phase constitutes the  majority of HPE’s environmental footprint,  so we place a high priority on developing  innovative solutions—starting from how  we design and deliver our products to how  materials are recovered. Our transformation to deliver our entire  portfolio as a service offers an innately  circular business model, helping our  customers to eliminate wasted infrastructure  and promoting producer responsibility  by ensuring we maintain custody over  equipment throughout its lifecycle. Sustainable product design is a longstanding  cornerstone of our strategy to minimize  the environmental and social impact of our  products. Our internal approach, grounded  in our Design for Environment principles, has  evolved for nearly 30 years to lower product  power consumption and reduce waste,  resulting in improved total cost of ownership  for our customers and contributing to a  more circular economy. We strive to improve the energy efficiency   and energy effectiveness of our products   and solutions to enable our customers   to support their growing compute, storage,  and connectivity needs with the lowest  input of power possible. Customer requests for product carbon  footprints (PCFs) are increasing. The PCFs  provide an estimate for the overall carbon  footprint of a product throughout its lifecycle.  At HPE, we calculate PCFs for the highest  volume of sold products using a streamlined  lifecycle analysis (LCA) tool, Product Attribute  to Impact Algorithm (PAIA). These reports  identify the components or processes  that HPE should prioritize to minimize our  downstream footprint and can help our  customers to evaluate and report the carbon  emissions of their own IT estates. The PCF  for our HPE ProLiant DL360 Gen10 server  is shown here for demonstrative purposes,  affirming our focus on improving the energy  performance of our portfolio. HPE uses our Power Advisor tool to calculate  the total energy consumption of HPE products  during their use phase and offers this tool  to customers to accurately estimate the  power needs and cost-of-ownership of their  HPE server and storage products. In 2020, we provided 182 PCFs to our  customers, an 8x increase in the number  of PCFs delivered in 2019. Read information regarding our approach  to efficient IT. We choose materials with the lowest  environmental impact wherever possible and  engineer efficient solutions that conserve  natural resources by dematerializing  IT infrastructure. For instance, HPE composable  infrastructure leads to more effective  resource utilization by eliminating the need  to deploy and manage separate workload- specific environments, and HPE GreenLake  as-a-service delivery models reduce the  need for overprovisioned, idle assets while  facilitating asset reuse. We also recognize plastic pollution is a  widespread problem and, although HPE only  uses small amounts, we do our part to address  the issue. In 2019, HPE piloted post-consumer  recycled (PCR) resin as a replacement for new,  non-recycled plastic for HPE servers. In 2020,  we confirmed plans to manufacture the end  cap of the HPE Synergy server line with PCR  plastic beginning in 2021. The PCR plastic is  estimated to be 3.5% less expensive and has  a lower logistical footprint given the material  supplier is located in the same region as our  manufacturing site in Singapore. We make it easier for our customers to extend  the useful life of HPE products by designing  for longer lifecycles and providing guidance  on self-repair and upgrades, including spare  parts availability. Our products are designed  for disassembly, which enables them to be  broken down to the component level for ease  of refurbishing or recycling.  We calculate and improve our products’  end-of-life recyclability using the  Recyclability Assessment Tool (RAT).   Based on these assessments, we estimate  that HPE product material is more than  90% recyclable on average. Learn more  about our material composition and the  recyclability of HPE products. SUPPLY CHAIN (15.5%) USE (83.7%) 1252.7 kg CO2e SSD 74.2 kg CO2e DAUGHTERBOARD(S) 93.9 kg CO2e ENCLOSURE, FAN(S), PSU 54.6 kg CO2e TRANSPORT 36.1 kg CO2e ASSEMBLY 4.7 kg CO2e END-OF-LIFE 15.5 kg CO2e MKB Bank is a growing digital bank that needed to evolve from  its legacy infrastructure and siloed operations to a more flexible  and cost-effective digital platform. MKB Bank chose HPE Synergy  composable infrastructure, a software-defined solution that  dynamically manages resources, and a flexible, consumption-based  IT model to enable easy scalability.  As a result, MKB Bank was able to reduce physical devices by 70%.  The density of HPE Synergy enabled the bank to reduce the number  of physical servers from 120 to 30 while the consumption-based  model reduced operational and support fees by 20% compared to  their previous infrastructure, for which they expect a full return on  investment within three to five years. As MKB Bank advances its digital banking initiative, they expect these  efficiencies to play a key role in achieving greater competitiveness and  helping the bank expand into new markets. At HPE, we’re committed to using efficient,  sustainable, and protective packaging to  deliver our products. Our innovative approach  considers the balance of sustainable materials,  creative design, and more efficient logistics  with hardware safety and financial savings. In  addition, we have an ongoing effort to offer  bulk packaging to customers that has been  well-received, most specifically in the 1U and  2U server product lines. sustainable materials. The new wood pallet  design weighs 44% less, reducing the carbon  footprint of the packaging and logistics. The  innovative packaging improvements have  been acknowledged with three new awards— the AsiaStar 2020 Award, World Star Award,  and SPS Packaging Award. Also in 2020, we established a Packaging  Governance Committee, a cross-functional  team tasked with advancing our commitment  to packaging innovation across the business.  The team was instrumental in an effort to  consolidate the number of box options in  our portfolio by almost 50%, with a 2021  goal of a 70% overall reduction. Benefits of  the project include simplified procurement practices, reduction in inventory and waste,  and overall cost savings. To ensure market access across the globe,  many HPE products are certified by eco-labels  such as Electronic Product Environmental  Assessment Tool (EPEAT), ENERGY STAR®,  80 Plus, China SEPA, and the China Energy  Conservation Program (CECP).  As a best practice, HPE produces  IT Eco Declarations for each new product,  offering customers and other stakeholders  visibility into product components and  guidelines for responsible end-of-use  management. In addition, we have published a set of Sustainable IT Purchasing Guidelines  to help customers integrate sustainability  considerations into their procurement criteria. Building upon our leadership in co-developing  the EPEAT standard for servers, we played  an influential role in the development of a new  EPEAT standard for networking equipment,  set to be released in 2021. In an effort to continually expand our eco-label  portfolio, we announced in early 2021 that  HPE became the first enterprise IT company  to offer TCO Certified data center products.  This world-leading certification covers both  social and environmental criteria and is  independently verified, helping our customers  make responsible purchasing choices. One of the key tenets of the circular economy  is to keep assets in use longer to reduce raw  material extraction and minimize e-waste.   As businesses upgrade to higher-performing,  more energy-efficient devices, or transition  to an as-a-service delivery model with their  existing tech or with pre-owned technology,  they may face the challenge of managing  legacy equipment. At HPE, we recover displaced or aging assets  and ensure they are responsibly and securely  retired in order to eliminate risk, protect  customers’ reputations and extend products’  useful life. Our Technology Renewal Centers  (TRCs) are the largest IT manufacturer  refurbishing facilities in the world. In 2020  alone, we processed 3.1 million assets  weighing more than 35 million pounds.  We remarketed nearly 90% of those assets  and recycled the remainder in a secure,  environmentally responsible way. In addition,  HPE’s extensive network of partners and  facilities enable us to take back technology  from 58 countries around the globe. Nearly 90% of the 3.1 million  assets processed by  HPE Technology Renewal  Centers were remarketed for  a second life. portfolio of products that undergo complete  remanufacturing and testing processes,  fully restoring them to meet HPE stringent  quality standards and ensuring they meet all  original factory specifications with at least  15% financial savings. with IT equipment removal, data overwriting,  and asset-level tracking in an environmentally  responsible way. Additionally, HPE provides  customers with the true market value of their  assets for reinvestment in new IT initiatives.  In the last five years, we infused more than  $400 million back into customers’ budgets  with HPE Asset Upcycling Services. of legacy systems through reliable, certified  pre-owned IT equipment. The entire HPE  inventory is available and includes products  released from 18 months up to 25 years ago.  Our customers can accelerate innovation  by freeing up budgets historically dedicated  to maintaining legacy and/or non-revenue- generating systems. We help our customers track progress toward  their business and sustainability goals through  our Circular Economy Report offering, which  provides our customers with information about  the carbon, energy, material, and landfill savings  achieved by returning retired or end-of-use  assets to HPE for processing through our TRCs.  This report also helps companies to disclose  their impacts in line with reporting frameworks  such as CDP. Since its launch in 2019, we  received requests from customers to calculate  savings achieved through our circular economy  programs, totaling 24,194 metric tons of CO2e  avoided, 1,177,083 MWh of energy saved,  and 24,734 metric tons of waste diverted.  refurbishing of hardware and components  isn’t an option, we assist HPE customers with  recycling in 58 countries globally. All of our  hardware recycling vendors must adhere to  our HPE Hardware Recycling Standards.  In addition, HPE ensures conformance to  standards though an independent auditing  firm that conducts cyclical audits. HPE strives  to recycle in-country to avoid exporting  electronic waste across borders. Exporting  electronic waste from developed countries  (OECD and European Union) to developing  countries (non-OECD countries, outside the  EU) is not allowed by HPE’s Policy on Export  of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries. Capco, a global management and technology consultancy needed a  creative investment strategy for funding their IT renovation project  which called for a zero-tolerance approach to any assets retaining  recoverable data and a desire to cut landfill waste by more than 50%. HPE delivered a global asset upcycling approach that ensured  compliance around waste, electrical and electronic equipment, and  data security—all while driving a commercial return. We secured  logistics from Hong Kong to Texas and exceeded Capco’s expectations  with zero assets going to landfill. Capco received a Circular Economy  Report, which accounted for the environmental impacts of the  assets processed, calculating savings of 1.3 megawatts of energy  and 8.3 metric tons of waste avoided. To top it off, Capco benefited  from a cash infusion from the value of their retired assets, which they  reinvested to support future IT projects. “We recognize that holding ourselves accountable  and growing sustainably and responsibly is  increasingly vital to our people, our clients, the  talent we attract, and the communities we serve  and operate within.” Our materials strategy replaces substances of  concern with viable alternatives and pushes   for higher industry standards on materials use. We design our products to be better for  business, the people that use them, and  the environment. HPE works to assess and  phase out materials when scientific data has  established a potential health or environmental  risk and lower-risk, commercially and technically  viable alternatives are available. Our evaluation  of alternative materials is a continuous process,  with more than 100 substance assessments to  date. We take a precautionary approach and,  as a result, our restrictions in many cases are  more stringent than regulatory requirements. Our product specification, which includes  substance and materials restrictions,  among others, can be found in our General  Specification for the Environment (GSE). HPE uses the globally recognized  GreenScreen® for Safer Chemicals tool to  assess and benchmark chemicals of high  concern and identify safer alternatives. These  assessments are conducted by a certified  in-house Authorized GreenScreen® Practitioner. We also use this tool to predict potential  future restrictions, an important step to  future-proof our products as we design for  lifespans of three to five years. Our work to continuously keep ahead of any  harmful substances and potential alternatives  for our industry relies on collaboration with  industry peers, local and regional governments,  and trade associations to understand current  and upcoming trends and continue to strive  for safe material options for the technology  industry. We are members and active  participants of the Information Technology  Industry Council (ITI), a global policy and  advocacy organization, as well as DigitalEurope,  a leading trade association that shapes policy  positions on all relevant legislative matters  and contributes to the development and  implementation of relevant EU policies. HPE has made strides to reduce the use of  halogenated compound flame retardants  in our products and actively advocates  for the inclusion of chemicals such as  brominated flame retardants (BFRs) in future  EU Restrictions of Hazardous Substances  (RoHS) legislation for enterprise IT. Specifically, HPE has made advances in  delivering low-halogen servers since the  launch of the Gen10 portfolio. We made  significant improvements in reducing our  halogen use between Gen9 and the latest  Gen10 server lineup. HPE’s policy is to provide products and services  that are safe to use and environmentally sound  throughout their lifecycle, ensuring we meet  regulatory and compliance requirements for our  products, components, and owned equipment  everywhere we operate. We also move beyond  current regulation to promote informed  legislation that contributes to the protection  of people and the environment. Since 2019, we have implemented an internal,  voluntary goal to meet all substance restrictions  of the EU RoHS legislation outside the EU (as  well as the European Free Trade Area of the  European Economic Area) six months ahead  of every legal compliance date worldwide for  virtually all new, HPE-branded products, except  where it is widely recognized that there is no  technically feasible alternative. For instance, in 2020, HPE ensured compliance  with updates to the EU’s Lot 9 regulation  ahead of the regulation’s effective date to  ensure seamless access to our European  markets. The directive puts forth strict  requirements for enterprise server and storage  products, including power usage and material  composition. The requirements also contribute  to more circular practices by requiring  products to be designed with modular parts  that can be easily disassembled, and offering  data sanitation services that allow storage  products and components to be reused in  lieu of shredding. HPE Lot 9 declarations  are available here. As part of the EU’s action plan for the circular  economy, the European Chemicals Agency  (ECHA) is developing a Substances of Concern  in Products (SCIP) database, to which all  manufacturers and importers of products are  required to submit reports for any product  SKUs that contain one or more Substances  of Very High Concern (SVHC). Companies  must disclose this information by early 2021.  The intent of the database is to allow for  data transparency in the supply chain and  to make the information readily available to end users and waste handlers for safe use  and disposal. HPE installed specialized SCIP  software to enable data collection, report  writing, and system-to-system submissions to  the SCIP database. We have been collecting  relevant information from our suppliers and  will commence filing SCIP Dossier reports with  ECHA as supplier data becomes available. Our environmental documents and  international declarations covering material   use, product safety, and environmental  attributes such as energy-efficiency information  can be found here. Technology manufacturing involves chemicals  and materials—absent from the final product— that can cause human and environmental  health hazards when handled. To ensure  safety, we uphold material innovation with  our suppliers, providing them with a full list of  restricted substances and clear guidance on  suitable alternatives. Through the HPE Supplier Code of Conduct  and continued supplier engagement, we  disseminate our requirements to our suppliers  and track supplier compliance. During  comprehensive Social and Environmental  Responsibility (SER) audits at our suppliers,  third-party auditors review materials  restrictions programs and ensure that there  is a formal compliance process in place during  the procurement and manufacturing phase. We believe that the global transition to a low-carbon economy  presents a business opportunity. Our environmental strategy  helps guide our business decisions to ensure we maintain  resilient operations while minimizing our impact on the planet. Climate change poses an existential threat— not just to our environment, but to our health,  communities, global economy, and local  business operations. The COVID-19 pandemic  has highlighted the need to act on scientific  imperatives to reduce our vulnerabilities,  which include increased likelihood of  environmental threats such as extreme  weather and biodiversity loss. While addressing the enormity of our climate  emergency is a challenge that requires  international cooperation and action, it also  provides an opportunity for organizations  like HPE to position ourselves as a business  and technology leader enabling a low-carbon  future. We recognize the urgency to minimize  our industry’s environmental footprint, to build  our own capacity to adapt to climate-related  risks such as compromised supply chains and  infrastructure, and to apply our technologies  and expertise to innovate transformative  low-carbon solutions. Our solutions-focused approach to enterprise  IT, including plans to offer our entire portfolio  as a service by 2022, enables our customers  to reduce the environmental impacts of  their IT infrastructure without jeopardizing  performance, and to make data-driven  decisions that improve the sustainability of  entire sectors. For instance, we partner with  our customers to develop multiple low-carbon  technologies for data centers, smart factories,  energy grids, and other production sectors. Becoming a more climate-resilient company  is a top priority for our organization. Over  the past year, we have conducted a more  thorough and robust climate scenario  analysis based on the recommendations  of the Task Force on Climate-related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD).11 In 2020,  HPE held a series of climate risk scenario  workshops across our core business units.  These cross-functional workshops brought  together HPE subject matter experts to  evaluate 20 critical uncertainties that covered  issues of the environment, society, the economy, and technology. In partnership with  Business for Social Responsibility (BSR),  HPE considered four climate scenarios in  our latest TCFD analysis, evaluating risks  and opportunities for a 10-year time horizon  under each scenario. Full disclosure from our 2020 analysis can  be found in our TCFD index. In the five years since the adoption of the  Paris Climate Agreement, HPE continues to  align itself with a wide range of alliances and  partner organizations that support climate  science and follow technical and economic  projections to achieve a 1.5°C future. In 2020,  HPE joined the call for the U.S. to mobilize  on climate action and a clean recovery. For  example, HPE joined more than 310 companies  to urge members of the U.S. Congress to enact  policies that support immediate investment  in the country’s transition to a net-zero  economy, including setting a price on carbon. Additionally, HPE signed the Uniting Business  and Governments to Recover Better pledge  to urge governments to prioritize a faster and  fairer transition to a green economy in the  post-COVID-19 world. HPE publicly stands for market-based  mechanisms with clear, transparent, and  consistent price signals such as setting a  price on carbon, which is detailed in our  climate policy. We further support the adoption  of a clean, renewable energy supply across  all industries through our participation as a  founding member and board member of the  Renewable Energy Buyer’s Alliance (REBA),  whose mission is to unlock the marketplace  for all nonresidential energy buyers to lead to a  rapid transition to a zero-carbon energy future.  HPE is also a member of the RE100. Learn more about our public policy priorities. The COVID-19 pandemic has decreased the  annual growth in carbon emissions globally.  However, to minimize a rebound in emissions  in 2021, HPE remains committed to minimizing  our environmental footprint across our entire  value chain, ensuring we focus on those areas  where our impact is greatest. HPE is committed to becoming carbon neutral across our value  chain by 2050 or sooner, with intermediate targets set for 2025. HPE was the first IT company to set science- based targets (SBTs) to reduce greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions across the value chain  and one of the first global companies to set  an operational science-based emissions- reduction target aligned with a 1.5°C trajectory.  Our climate goals are approved by the  Science Based Target initiative and align with  the recommendations of the internationally  recognized Paris Climate Agreement to limit  global average temperature rise to well below a 2°C from pre-industrial levels in order to  substantially reduce the risks and effects  of climate change. Our work to reduce GHG emissions and  climate-related risks continues to be  recognized by reputable organizations. For the  eighth consecutive year, HPE was recognized  for leadership in corporate sustainability by  global environmental nonprofit CDP, securing  a place on its prestigious climate change A List  and its supplier engagement leaderboard. Get the data behind our environmental  footprint in the Data Summary. performance of our  product portfolio 30x  compared to 2015 levels  performance of our  product portfolio 3.2x  compared to 2015 levels In 2020, 95% of our GHG emissions resulted  from the manufacture and use of our products,  making it a business imperative to design more  efficient IT solutions and to partner with our  suppliers to reduce impacts in our supply chain. Totals may not add up due to rounding. Our operations accounted for only 5% of  our total emissions, however, we remain  committed to reducing our energy use by  procuring renewable electricity where possible,  improving our building energy efficiency,  optimizing the logistics of our products,  and minimizing impacts from workforce  commuting and business travel. Our customers expect us to set long-term  targets based on science, and we expect our  suppliers to strive to do the same. We share  our experiences and best practices with our  suppliers and set industry leading standards  to aggressively reduce the climate impacts  of our supply chain. Our primary focus is on our production  manufacturers, including final assembly and  strategic commodity suppliers, with whom  we have a direct contractual relationship. In 2017, HPE became the first company to  create a comprehensive, science-based supply  chain management program to reduce the  impact of our manufacturing suppliers.15 We  require production suppliers to report their  GHG emissions inventory and progress toward  science-based targets on an annual basis and  require non-production and transport suppliers  to report their emissions annually. In addition,  in order to track progress and identify areas  for improvement, we require our suppliers  to disclose corporate-wide GHG emissions  annually through the CDP supply chain  program, set goals, and improve the accuracy   of their GHG emissions accounting. HPE partners with our suppliers, providing  training and tools to achieve our goal of having  80% of our production suppliers, by spend,  set their own science-based targets (SBTs)  by 2025. As of 2019,16 28% have set Scope 1  and 2 targets that track with climate science,  and 52% have committed to set SBTs in the  next two years.17 By encouraging our suppliers  to set challenging targets and build their own  internal sustainability capabilities, we will have  a positive ripple effect upstream through the  broader IT supply chain. HPE is also committed  to reducing absolute manufacturing-related  GHG emissions by 15% from 2016 levels  by 2025. We are pleased to announce that,  as of 2019,18 our manufacturing suppliers  decreased emissions by 15% for a total  decrease of 688,148 metric tons of CO2e,  compared to 2016 levels. Given that we have  met our target six years ahead of schedule,  we will spend the upcoming year resetting  our manufacturing-related emissions goal  and will continue to work with our suppliers  to minimize their operational emissions. In 2020, HPE partnered with industry peers  to design a customized supply chain data  management software, developed and hosted  by POINT380. This data management software  feeds in company-specific supplier emissions data to track progress toward supply chain  carbon emissions reduction goals. Through  the platform’s customizable dashboards,  HPE suppliers will have access to their own  data and will be able to track progress toward  their publicly stated goals and view their  performance against their peers. Suppliers will  also have access to a modeled SBT based on  their own emissions, which they can use as the  basis for setting new and ambitious targets. In 2020, HPE hosted engagements with  24% of our suppliers by spend. This included  two in-depth climate change program  requirements webinars to guide suppliers  on how to overcome the complexities of  setting targets and help them align their  efforts with global standards. These webinars  focused on setting comprehensive climate  strategy, achieving emissions reductions, and  measuring ongoing progress. HPE is currently one of the only companies  in the IT sector to host direct and prolonged  one-on-one engagements with our suppliers  that include data review and analysis.  Through our capability-building programs,  we are enabling suppliers to become early  actors in setting emissions-reduction targets  and preparing their businesses for future climate policies, regulations, and increasing  stakeholder demands. We also leverage our expertise and influence  to increase our suppliers’ access to renewable  energy markets. HPE is a member of the  Supply Chain Advisory Board of REBA. This  enables us to disseminate information—such  as webinars, trainings, and supplier roadmaps— to our suppliers, helping to aid access to  renewable energy in their respective regions.  For example, in 2020, we co-developed REBA’s  Supply Chain Partner Engagement Roadmap,  which provides guidance for companies  seeking to engage their suppliers to reduce  Scope 3 emissions. Our comprehensive Supplier Code of  Conduct sets out guidelines to help suppliers  reduce the environmental impact of their  activities and is aligned with the Responsible  Business Alliance’s (RBA) Code of Conduct.  In 2020, HPE worked directly with the RBA  to draft new guidance to be integrated in  their Code of Conduct to help suppliers  more easily fulfill GHG emissions reduction  targets requirements. While HPE continues to invest in renewable  energy, prioritize building efficiency projects,  and optimize our transportation modalities,  there is no doubt that the COVID-19 pandemic  has had a significant impact on our direct  operations. In 2020, global shelter-in-place  orders shifted the energy demands from our  office buildings to our team members’ personal  households. As a result, our operations used  668,14319 MWh of energy in 2020, down  12% compared to 2019. We are currently analyzing how best to capture  the emissions associated with the energy  use required for our team members to work  from home. These emissions were historically  captured under our Scope 1 and 2 emissions,  but as more employees work from home,  they will transition to Scope 3 emissions in  future reporting. In 2020, HPE sourced approximately  276,886 MWh of renewable energy,  representing 44% of our global electricity  consumption, a 6% increase relative to  2019. Our goal is to source 50% renewable  electricity in our operations by 2025. to global grids. As of 2020, HPE is sourcing  67% of our total renewable electricity from the  Americas, 13% from Europe, Middle East, and  Africa, and 20% from Asia Pacific and Japan.   In 2020, our Global Real Estate team  re-evaluated green tariff programs offered by  16 major U.S. utilities and enrolled HPE sites in  eight new programs. We expect that this alone  will result in approximately 22,217 MWh of  renewable electricity consumption annually. While HPE did not sign any major new  renewable energy contracts in 2020 because  of uncertainties due COVID-19, we signed a  10-year agreement with Constellation Energy  in 2019, which is expected to come online  in 2022. The agreement will utilize energy  and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) from  the Rayos del Sol solar project in Cameron  County, Texas, and will help power our new  headquarters in Houston. We will resume  pursuing new renewable energy contracts in  the upcoming year to seek similar opportunities  for all our regional offices. In 2020, we enrolled HPE  sites in eight new utility green  tariff programs, resulting in  approximately 22,217 MWh  of renewable electricity  consumption annually. COVID-19 has challenged us to reimagine the  future of work. As a result, HPE is redefining  our office experience and moving toward a new  way of working: Edge-to-Office. A majority of  work will now be done at the edge—outside  the office. As a result, our Global Real Estate  team is currently re-evaluating HPE regional  sites and densifying building space to account for the number of team members that will  need to be in the office. While our facilities  continue to account for the largest portion  of emissions from our operational footprint,  by consolidating our building footprint we  anticipate a shift in our emissions data in 2021.  HPE will continue to conduct energy audits  at our facilities on an annual basis and will  implement energy retrofit projects, integrating  the latest efficiency technologies.  HPE has maintained global certification to  the International Standards Organization (ISO)  14001 Environmental Management Systems  (EMS) standard since 2004. As part of our  continuous improvement, in 2020 we added  a new site in Rome, for a total of 11 sites  including all HPE-owned manufacturing sites  and significant server product design and  development sites. In 2021, we will add Paris  to the list of certified sites. A commitment to reducing emissions remains  a key criterion for HPE product transport  providers. In 2019 HPE set a new target  to reduce absolute emissions from our  transportation logistics by 35% by 2025,  relative to 2016. Although HPE is on track  to meet this goal with an 27% reduction from  2016 levels, our absolute emissions from  transportation logistics increased 2% from  2019 because we increased use of airfreight  in 2020 due to COVID-19. With countless passenger flights cancelled  for regional and international airfreight,  HPE prioritized opportunities to consolidate  shipments wherever possible. In instances  where customers participate in our product  take-back programs through HPE Financial  Services, we consolidate all returned products  onto groupage carriers to minimize the carbon  emissions associated with transport. To further our momentum in reducing  carbon emissions from transportation logistics,  in 2020 HPE conducted comprehensive  sustainability reviews with major logistics  service providers and developed a Logistics  Sustainability Roadmap, outlining a five- to  10-year transportation emissions strategy.  This roadmap takes into consideration  supply chain optimization, alternative fuels,  and sustainable technologies. Short-term  opportunities include piloting lower-carbon  airfreight lanes and the use of zero-  and low-emissions vehicles for final mile  delivery to customers. HPE remains an active member in the  Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC),   U.S. EPA SmartWay, and the Sustainable  Air Freight Alliance (SAFA). In 2020, we saw a 55% decrease in emissions  related to employee business travel due  to COVID-19. We anticipate a portion of  business travel to resume in late 2021 and  will continue to work with our team members  and transport providers to support sustainable  travel practices such as incentivizing rideshare  programs and requiring the use of approved  car rental size classifications. We regularly  replace company vehicles to update our fleet  with better fuel and engine-efficiency. We introduced hybrid vehicles into our  U.S. fleet for the first time in 2020 and  increased the use of EV and PHEV vehicles  in several European countries. HPE recognizes water as one of the world’s  most critical resources. Increasingly, the  connection between climate change and  water are becoming clearer. The majority of HPE’s water footprint is  related to the electricity associated with the  use of our products (91%), and the energy  needs of our operations (4%), including the consumption related to power generation  and infrastructure cooling. According to the World Resources Institute  (WRI), water use during electricity generation  represents one of the largest sources of  water withdrawals globally. HPE focuses on  quantifying impacts from the energy-water  nexus. Through energy efficiency and energy  procurement choices, HPE can address its impact on water in the supply chain, operations,  and product use phase. Additionally, our  lifecycle approach to product design focuses  on reducing water consumption associated  with data center cooling systems. In 2020, we published our water policy,  which covers how HPE quantifies and assesses  water withdrawal and consumption across  our value chain. Managing the use of water in our supply  chain is essential to the future of our  business and planet. HPE requests corporate-level water footprint  data and targets from our suppliers. Our  SER supplier scorecard, which informs HPE  purchasing decisions, includes a corporate-wide  water reporting requirement for our suppliers.  We support suppliers by providing clear  expectations, prescriptive guidelines, and  helpful tools to raise awareness of our  requirements for water stewardship as part  of our Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR)  program. As of 2019,21 37% of our production  suppliers have set water-related targets. As we look ahead, we plan to increase capability  building with suppliers, especially those who  are located in water-stressed regions, focusing  on water management and resiliency. In 2020, our operations withdrew 1.4 million  cubic meters of water, a decrease of 20% from  the previous year. While HPE is not a large  water consumer compared to other industries  and companies, we are expanding efforts  to improve water management in locations  that face water-related risks. Using the  WRI’s Water Aqueduct tool, we calculated that  from 2017 to 2020, HPE water withdrawals  from extremely high and high water-stressed  regions decreased from 20% to 16%, and our total water withdrawals decreased by 20%.  HPE discloses our performance and water  management approach annually through the  CDP water program and, for the first time,  achieved an A score in 2020. In the upcoming  year, we will be prioritizing water initiatives  that are informed by energy-water use, using  the WRI’s new methodology. Although HPE facilities have withdrawn  less water year-over-year since 2016, our  consolidation of facilities in regions that  experience high water stress has resulted in  increased water withdrawal from these regions.  HPE prioritizes water management projects for  sites in water-stressed regions. For example,  our ongoing water management practices at  our sites in Bangalore, India, have enabled us to reduce water withdrawal by more than  200% since 2016. In the upcoming year, we will  prioritize developing a more robust, data-driven  water assessment to identify projects that  provide the most significant benefits for  high-risk communities. Simply reducing our facilities’ water withdrawals  is not enough to manage the water challenges  of the future. Water scarcity poses increased  risk of disruptions to our operations, to our  suppliers and customers, and to our workforce  and their communities. For that reason, HPE  is working to align our renewable energy and  energy–water nexus strategies. Get the data behind our water footprint in the  Data Summary. In 2020, HPE set a new annual target to  divert 90% of non-hazardous waste from  landfill.22 Total waste generation from  our direct operations decreased by 21%  in 2020 and total non-hazardous waste  diversion increased by 3%, helping us achieve     an 89% diversion rate. Waste from our operations consists primarily  of nonhazardous recyclables and electronic  waste, as well as limited hazardous waste, such  as lead-acid batteries, which accounts for only  about 1% of the total waste we generate. culture that empowers team members to be  mindful of their own waste footprint. Due to  COVID-19, we are reprioritizing our employee  engagement waste initiatives from in-office  programs to educational campaigns that will  help team members reduce their waste while  working from home. Additionally, we anticipate  that our transition to Edge-to-Office will  significantly impact the characterization of  our waste streams in the upcoming year. We are minimizing the depletion of natural  resources caused by our business activities and  applying our technologies to transition toward a  more sustainable economy. We actively manage  material natural capital-related risks and  opportunities across our value chain through  activities such as: Information regarding material risks related  to the environment can be found in our  2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are committed to being unconditionally inclusive to capture  the ideas and perspectives that fuel innovation. We recognize  that when our people thrive, the company thrives—making  team member safety and wellbeing our top priority. Inspired by  our purpose, we harness our talents, expertise, and technologies  to be a force for good. We drive business impact and market  differentiation by investing in diverse talent  and advancing inclusion across our value chain. At HPE, we believe that our business success  is directly tied to the diverse experiences,  skills, and backgrounds of our team members  and other stakeholders. Our people are our  greatest strength, and we are committed to  being an unconditionally inclusive organization  to capture the wealth of ideas and perspectives  that are necessary to fuel innovation. Inclusion and diversity are a cornerstone of  our human capital management strategy.  We achieve this by creating a workplace that  values our people, enabling us to make HPE  a destination for the best talent while driving  excellence for our customers. Our efforts are  geared toward creating an inclusive workplace  for all team members, including women, racial  and ethnic diversity, LGBTQ+, veterans, and  team members with disabilities. In 2020, after conducting listening sessions  across our organization, we launched an  Inclusion and Diversity Council chaired by  HPE CEO Antonio Neri. The Council includes  executives and team members from across our businesses, representing all facets of  diversity, who oversee the development of a  company-wide strategy and hold leadership  roles in our Resource Groups. The Council is  focused on advancing four priority areas and  identifying bold goals in each priority at HPE for multiple years, we are  developing a multi-year road map to fulfill  our commitment to unconditional inclusion,  a core cultural belief.  In 2020, nearly all our  people leaders (98%) completed a half-day  immersive inclusive leadership training,  and this will be expanded to every team  member in 2021. representation at all levels, representation  across leadership is a deliberate focus which  leads to increased retention of diverse  team members. By the end of 2021, we  aim for 100% of teams three or fewer levels  from the CEO to have at least one diverse  team member. We will remember 2020 as a year of adversity,  with the pandemic and racial injustice  impacting everyone in ways big and small.  While HPE has long stood for inclusion and  diversity, the events that took place in the  United States compelled us to join the chorus  of voices demanding change. That change  starts within, and we dedicated the rest of  2020 to listening, making change, and holding  ourselves accountable. team members are more engaged when  they feel safe to speak up for each other,  and we are advancing a “speak up” culture  by developing greater advocacy. Following   a successful pilot to expand education about  the experiences of diverse communities,  we are developing a program to certify  team members as Allies. We have set a  goal for all senior leaders to be a sponsor  of diverse talent. and equity within our community investment  work. In 2021, we are launching a 2:1  matching campaign on HPE Gives for racial  justice organizations and explicitly outlining  diverse representation as an element of our  Community Impact Grants criteria. In June 2020, we kicked off a series of  Listening Sessions to hear the stories,  experiences, and feedback from our Black and  African American team members to help inform  our near-term actions. Their success led to  six more, featuring Hispanic/Latinx and Asian  employees in the United States, with plans to  expand these Listening Sessions beyond the  U.S. to include a global perspective. In 2020, HPE also joined the Fortune CEO  Initiative, a group of CEOs from purpose-driven  companies who work together to tackle societal  issues. In 2021, the group will introduce a  resource to address the unique pressures CEOs  face while navigating conversations around  race and bias and implementing change. In 2019, we set a target to increase the  representation of women and ethnically diverse  talent by at least 1% year over year. We are  pleased to report that HPE met its year over  year target for total U.S. ethnicity categories.  We nearly doubled the acceleration of our  female representation year over year, although  were short of meeting the target for women by  0.4%. Nevertheless, HPE increased our female  workforce at every level worldwide, including  manager, technical, and director roles even as  our total employees decreased by 3% globally. HPE has accelerated its female hiring  rate to over 37%, which is 5% higher than  representation at HPE. Our diversity targets  are tied to incentive compensation for  HPE executives and our diversity scorecard  progress is reviewed quarterly with the  Board of Directors. In addition, the HPE board of directors is one  of the most diverse in the industry, reflecting  the cultural, racial, and gender diversity of our  workforce and our stakeholders. See the 2020 Data Summary for  comprehensive employee demographics data. HPE maintains policies to ensure equal pay,  and we regularly review our pay practices so  that team members with the same role in a  similar location are paid fairly and equitably.  We believe equity must also include fostering  equal opportunities, evaluating and addressing  biases, and accommodating flexible work.  We offer several benefits that support a  gender-inclusive culture by promoting  work-life balance and flexibility, including our  Work That Fits Your Life benefits program,  which includes six months paid parental leave  and parental transition support. We cultivate female talent within our business  units through leadership programs such as the  Office of Operations, Legal, and Administrative  Affairs’ (OLAA) Women’s Network (OWN),  which is sponsored by our Chief Operating  Officer and focuses on developing talent  and improving the working environment for  women within the organization. In 2020, OWN  conducted a psychological safety survey  to better understand areas of opportunity  to promote an environment where every  employee can succeed. Initial findings indicate  that mentorship and sponsorship and increased  transparency around inclusion efforts have a  significant influence on psychological safety,  helping to support long-term retention. In 2020, HPE also hosted several development  programs for women across the globe to build  a strong community of future women leaders  and to engage their male counterparts as  gender advocates. For example, in Guadalajara,  Mexico, the Women’s Network Mexico Resource  Group launched HeForShe, a UN Women  initiative, which consisted of six open webinars  for all team members in Mexico and six  workshops for male leaders focusing on the  topic of gender equality. Additionally, our  European Women’s Leadership Council created  an open mentoring program to create more  learning and development opportunities for  female team members.  It is also critical that we reflect our inclusive  values through the way we communicate and  bring solutions to market. In 2020, we identified  instances of non-inclusive terminology and  are phasing them out across the business,  including in coding language to ensure the  language is free of discrimination, unconscious  bias, and stereotypes. To date, 1,089 instances  of terms have been eliminated or replaced.  In addition, the Global Brand team has  emphasized diversity in visual representation,  updating our imagery and collateral to source  and choose impactful brand visuals that ensure  all our team members and stakeholders see  themselves in the HPE brand. HPE is also committed to better streamlining  and improving processes to accommodate  team members with disabilities. We launched  HPE Able in 2019 in conjunction with training  focused on foundational awareness of people  with disabilities, building team member’s  inclusive communication skills, and interviewing  practices. During 2020, HPE Able supported  team members with disabilities through the  new HPE Open Line accommodations process,  working to provide assistive technologies  for team members with visual and hearing  impairments. We have seen significant year- over-year growth in Disabilities Network, our  team member-led Resource Group. In 2020,  chapters grew by 166% and membership by  80% compared to 2019. Our efforts have earned HPE multiple awards  for inclusion and diversity, including being  listed on the Bloomberg Gender Equality  Index, Working Mothers 100 Best Companies  list, and Best Workplaces for Dads list,  as well as receiving 100% scores on the  Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality  Index and Disability:IN Disability Equality  Index. Additionally, in 2020, HPE was named  one of the top 70 Companies for Executive  Women by the National Association for  Female Executives (NAFE) and identified  as one of the best workplaces for women by  Fortune Great Places to Work. Investing in the development of a more  diverse talent pipeline is critical to closing the  skills gap our industry faces. In 2020, 58% of  U.S. HPE interns represented ethnically diverse  backgrounds and, at a global level, 42% of  HPE interns identified as female. We encourage  more women and underrepresented groups  to enter and succeed in technology careers  through a variety of programs and partnerships,  including creating tech-enabled learning tools,  increasing specialized recruitment activities,  cultivating female talent through internship  programs, and providing reskilling to people  who have been out of the workforce for an  extended period of time. In 2020, our Inclusion and Diversity Council  increased our partnerships with historically  Black colleges by 50%  to boost recruitment  of Black interns in the U.S., and implemented  new recruiting requirements worldwide  mandating that a minimum of one candidate  from a diverse background be short-listed  for non-executive roles. For executive roles,  we are striving for a minimum of 50% diverse  candidates. Additionally, we have set diverse  slate goals for positions and utilize diverse  interview panels. At HPE, we believe that effective leadership  is inclusive leadership. HPE’s highly immersive Inclusive Leadership  Training program reinforces how we  define our Elements of Leadership, with  inclusion being a core part of those  competencies. In June 2020, we bolstered  the program with additional classes achieving  98% completion by our People Leaders.  In 2020, nearly 6,000 people leaders and  senior technologists participated in strategic  educational campaigns about fostering a  culture of inclusivity across the business. HPE is deeply committed to identifying and  developing future top-tier leadership with a  special focus on diverse and technical talent.   In 2020, our promotion rate increased by  5% for all U.S. ethnicity categories and retention  rate increased by 2%. Similarly, our retention  rate for women increased by 2%. Additionally,  in 2020 we continued our Women on Boards  Leadership Program for top executive female  talent at HPE. Learn more about how we invest in our leaders. Engaging our employees Results from our 2020 Voice of the Workforce  survey showed that 95% of our team members  feel they are treated equitably and with  respect, regardless of gender, ethnicity, or  other characteristic. This finding is reinforced  through strong engagement scores across our  diverse groups. We are proud of the progress  we’ve made in this space but recognize we  must continue to do more. More than 28% of our workforce is actively  engaged in our Resource Groups (RGs, formerly  Employee Resource Groups) program through  continued initiatives, events, and programming,  and nearly a third  of our workforce participated  in the 300 major RG events we hosted around  the world in 2020. RGs are volunteer communities of employees  that purposefully come together to build  an even more inclusive culture at HPE by  activating our strategic impact areas. Over the  past year alone, we saw a 10% growth in the  number of RG chapters, which represent 46  countries and nine constituencies—Hispanic,  veterans, pan-Asian, Person with disability,  multicultural, Black/African American, LGBTQ+,  generational, and women. Our RGs even partner together to host  signature annual events including  Lunar New Year, Diwali, Hispanic Heritage  Month, Black History Month, International  Women’s Day, Asian Heritage Month,  Veteran’s Day, PRIDE month, and more. Beyond our workforce, we accelerate a  more inclusive economy through our  Supplier Diversity Program. In 2020, we  spent $126 million (7% of US sales) with  small enterprises and businesses owned by  diverse categories such as women, minorities,  and veterans. Our percentage of spend with  diverse suppliers decreased in 2020, which  can be explained by two factors. First, in 2020  we migrated all supplier spend data to a new  third-party management system. During this  data migration process, our team isolated  residual data from our legacy company and  recalculated our spend baseline. Second,  like other parts of our organization, the  COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted  our overall supplier spend, especially services  contracted to contingent labor and consultants,  which have historically been fulfilled by our  diverse suppliers. In 2020, HPE introduced significant data- integrity improvements to better track our  progress and increased our visibility into our  LGBTQIA+ and Person with disability-owned  business spending. We created a new, easy-to- use website and registration portal for potential  diverse suppliers to initiate conversations. In a  turbulent year focused on social justice issues  in the U.S., we received outspoken support  from our CEO for supplier diversity and overall  inclusion and diversity efforts. In response,  we also increased focus on minority-owned  suppliers in our RFP opportunities. HPE delivered on commitments for small  and diverse business inclusion despite  the challenging business environment  and contraction in budgetary spending.  In 2020, HPE: Our team members are our greatest asset. Their  well-being and success are at the forefront of   our company’s values and culture. We foster team  member engagement, invest in their professional  development, and provide resources for wellness. Our new corporate culture program, Life Inside  the Element, is centered around our team  members, with a strong focus on their  experiences, benefits, and career success.  In 2020, we created new ways to strengthen  our culture and values, whether our team  members were working at home or in the  office. Highlights from the year include: Despite the significant events in 2020  associated with social injustice and COVID-19,  our team members remained more engaged  than ever before, with an engagement score  of 83%. In addition, our quarterly pulse surveys  revealed 88% team member favorability across  key culture dimensions. We also saw a drop in  attrition from 7% in 2019 to 5% in 2020, a rate  significantly below industry norms. Strengthening our culture remains a top priority  for HPE, and we aim for all leadership to instill  our culture blueprint within their teams. We  tie executive compensation to deployment of  our culture—including employee engagement,  talent retention, and diversity and inclusion. We continue to strengthen our human  capital by investing in team members at  every level and at every stage of their career.  We conduct an in-depth annual talent and  succession review with our CEO and Executive  Committee members. The process focuses on  accelerating talent development, strengthening  succession pipelines, and advancing diversity  representation for our most critical roles. We expanded learning opportunities during  COVID-19 to ensure team members had  the resources to progress their careers  while working from home. We transitioned  all of our programs, including instructor-led,  to be available online. In 2020, HPE Learning and Development  invested $7.7 million in resources for  team members, and HPE’s business units  made additional investments to support  their teams. AcceleratingU is our primary  learning platform, consisting of on-demand,  interactive, and mobile access to personalized  learning opportunities. During the year,  77% of active employees completed at  least one non-mandatory training course  in AcceleratingU. Team members achieved  more than 609,000 course completions  with an average of 23.2 learning hours  per team member. During the year, team  members achieved more  than 609,000 course  completions, with an  average of 23.2 learning  hours per team member To support team member career growth, we  encourage them to apply for open positions  within HPE. In 2020, we filled 35% of positions  with internal candidates, up 10% from 2019. We also support workforce development  outside of our walls. Our Employee  Development Grant program provides financial  support to team members who are pursuing  bachelor’s, master’s, or doctorate degrees. In  2020, more than 440 people benefited from  the program. In the U.S.—where student loan  debt totals more than $1.5 trillion—we offer  a Student Loan Repayment program. In 2020,  we provided approximately $2.5 million to more  than 800 team members. For more information on our Human Capital  Management strategy, see our Proxy Statement. Effective leadership is pivotal to the  success of our teams. In 2020, we revised our leadership  development curriculum to align with the  company’s business priorities, address timely  topics, and deliver more targeted training.  We now steer select leaders to shorter courses  geared toward their roles. We also revamped  our Inclusive Leadership course to reinforce  our leaders’ roles in ensuring a diverse and  inclusive workforce. We require all leaders to  complete the course, and at the end of 2020,  we reached 98% of leadership. We also updated our Elements of Leadership  program to include tools that leaders can use in  their day-to-day work. This program provides  training on HPE’s four elements of leadership— Engage, Empower, Evolve, and Execute. Honing  these behaviors will ultimately help leaders  drive business performance and team member  engagement. In 2021, we will require 100% of  leaders to complete this training. We’ve always believed that the well-being of  our team members extends beyond our walls.  This has never been truer than during the  pandemic, when health is top of mind and the  majority of our workforce is remote. U.S. team members affected by COVID-19 or adult care in the U.S. Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP)  provides everyday support for team members,  including counseling, referrals for childcare,  professional assistance for emotional and  behavioral health, and critical incident support  for sites affected by natural disasters. In 2020,  we expanded EAP offerings to address the  everyday challenges brought on by COVID-19.  During the year, global engagement with EAP  increased by 50% compared to 2019. We  were also encouraged to see that 87% of team  members who participated in our annual Voice  of the Workforce survey felt that HPE takes a  genuine interest in them by offering wellness  programs to team members and their families. In 2020, global engagement  with EAP increased by  50% compared to 2019. The HPE Work That Fits Your Life benefit  supports our workforce through work-life  transitions by allowing flexibility in where  and how our people work. The industry- leading benefit, launched in 2019, includes  improvements to our paid parental  leave, flexible work arrangements, and  return-to-work opportunities. As a result of  this program, we now offer one of the most  generous parental leave programs in our  industry—six months of paid parental leave  after the birth or adoption of a child. During the pandemic, we provided team  members additional flexibility in their daily work  schedule and extra paid time off as necessary  to provide care for family members. We also invest in team member health through  Winning with Wellness, our longstanding  well-being initiative. This comprehensive  program incorporates in-person and virtual  resources such as on-site trainings, wellness  websites, and publicly-available podcast series,  and physical fitness challenges. We promote  all wellness pillars globally, with sites offering  tailored programs to meet local needs. The pandemic posed unique challenges to governments, businesses,  and individuals alike. Recognizing this, we wanted to make sure our  team members and their families had the tools to stay well physically  and mentally. In 2020, we stepped up our wellness support by offering  new and expanded free resources, including: focus, and more. In 2020, more than 10,000 team members enrolled  in Headspace, completing 2.2 million minutes of meditation In 2020, we transitioned from an annual to ongoing behavioral  health campaign. We tailored our resources to address the challenges  being experienced by various groups—parents, those who live alone,  and those who are caring for aging loved ones. U.S. and Canada Given that HPE has always had a global,  distributed workforce, we already had the  systems in place to engage remote teams.  Amid the pandemic, we leveraged our existing  platforms to frequently communicate with  and get feedback from team members. Our annual Voice of the Workforce survey  encourages direct feedback from our team  members on topics such as culture, inclusion,  and career success. Every year, we update  the survey to address evolving business  priorities. In 2020, 80% of our team members  participated, a 4% increase from the previous  year and the highest rate to date. We also achieved our highest engagement score to  date of 83%, a 2% increase from 2019. Additionally, 94% of team members feel they  are given the flexibility to manage their work  and personal needs, a positive indication that  HPE rose to the challenge of the pandemic.  Areas of opportunity identified include feeling  encouraged to pursue an internal career  move, fairness of the compensation process,  and business process effectiveness. We share  survey results with HPE leadership, who review  the feedback and take appropriate action. In 2020, we achieved  our highest employee  engagement score to  date of 83%, a 2% increase  from 2019. We also engaged our remote teams through a  number of existing channels, including: Connect  Now, our internal social collaboration platform;  HPE insider, our online company news page;  and monthly All Team Member meetings. At the onset of the pandemic, we shifted the  majority of our 59,400 global team members  to remote working. Shortly thereafter, we  launched Edge-to-Office, a full reimagination  of our sites that goes beyond short-term  office closures. Edge-to-Office is a new way  of working, anchored on flexibility and trust,  while still ensuring that culture, collaboration,  and innovation remain at the forefront of  our day-to-day tasks. Under this program,  the majority of our team members will  permanently work remotely, but still have  access to HPE sites for collaboration as needed.  To assist team members with the transition  and to help them succeed in their new work  environment, we developed online resources,  provided IT equipment, and offered extra  time with leadership. We also implemented a companywide  campaign, HPE—Here to Help. The campaign  shared resources to help all employees cope  with challenges from the pandemic, both  professionally and personally. We also built  a specific learning channel on AcceleratingU  that provided content on pandemic support. The rapid pace of technology innovation has  re-shaped the tech job market, revealing skills  gaps in our industry. We are supporting those  affected by this transition with the abilities  they need to succeed in the growing number  of tech roles.  In 2020, we launched the Strategic Skills  project to support our team members in  learning tech skills that are in demand. Using  software, this project will identify the skills  needed at HPE and then hardwire these into  our learning and development programs. HPE also launched the HPE STEM initiative  in 2020 to deploy HPE-developed tools  and resources to students, with a focus on  reaching female and ethnically diverse groups.  Learn more in community investment. Beyond our company, we also provide reskilling  to people who have been out of the workforce  for an extended period of time. Through   our Returnship program, we help professionals  build skills and experience in specific areas,  such as cybersecurity, before returning  to the workforce. The health and safety of every team member  remains our top priority at HPE. Whether in  the office or working remotely, we have policies  and resources in place to help our workforce  stay healthy. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic,  we activated more than 50 local HPE crisis  management teams that worked quickly  to comply with rapidly changing protocols  and protect the health and safety of our  team members.  We implemented a global work from home  policy and established an online COVID-19  Resource Center to support the transition to  remote working. In addition, HPE expanded  our benefits and Employee Assistance Program  to support team member well-being. For select positions requiring individuals to  be on-site, we immediately offered personal  protective equipment, and we followed best  practice and local regulations to prepare  our offices and operations for safe working.  Prior to allowing team members back on-site,  all HPE facilities must complete a thorough  170-element safety checklist. We take a holistic approach to health and  safety. Our Environmental, Health, and  Safety (EHS) program promotes practices  for an injury-free workplace and provides  the tools and resources necessary for sites  to comply with our Environmental, Health,  and Safety Policy. This policy guides our  team members and subcontractors on the  practices and protocols for maintaining a  safe work environment. In 2020, our lost workday case rate was  .02 and our recordable incident rate was .05.  Both rates were below U.S. industry standards  of 0.1 and 0.2 respectively,23 and were  improvements compared to our rates in 2019.  This improvement is primarily due to team  members working remotely, which reduced the  number of office- and vehicle-related accidents.  Although our total rates were down, we saw an  increase in ergonomics-related incidents and  lost workdays due to the transition to working  from home. We are addressing this trend by  continuing to share tips and resources to help  team members set up their home workspaces  with ergonomics in mind. We use our internal EHS risk reporting tool to  track regulations and compliance mechanisms  across our global sites. This tool gives our  EHS team greater visibility into site-specific  risks and how they are being addressed. As  part of this tool, our EHS team conducts on-site  safety assessments. These assessments were  postponed in 2020 due to COVID-19, but will  be reinstated when team members return to  the office. For regulatory updates, we receive  periodic information from a third-party EHS  management consulting company. We certify select HPE offices to industry- leading safety standards. As of 2020, three  HPE sites are certified to OHSAS 18001 and  10 are certified to ISO 14001. Every year,  internal and third-party auditors confirm site  compliance with these standards. In 2020,  these audits were conducted remotely due  to COVID-19 restrictions. Upholding safety is the responsibility of  every HPE team member. We engage team  members often on health and safety through  our EHS programs, mandatory training during  onboarding, and company-wide campaigns.  In 2020, a number of HPE sites received  recognition for their strong health and safety  practices, including HPE locations in Colombia,  Italy, and the U.S. Our culture of giving strengthens the communities  where we live and work and remains a powerful means  of engaging team members. We channel our efforts toward  the world’s toughest challenges, tapping into the power  of technology and the talents of our people. We use our strengths and skills as a technology  leader to support community organizations  and empower team members to use their  passion and expertise to serve others. We  are aligning our community initiatives to our  business strategy with the goal of increasing  our impact. This involves meeting with HPE  leaders to drive synergy between our business  and community activities and ensuring  our team members are aware of the giving  opportunities available to them. The pillars of HPE Gives, our community  investment program, are accelerating impact in  the digital age, supporting communities where  we live and work, and amplifying the impact  of our people.  Our 2020 activities were heavily influenced  by the year’s events, including the COVID-19  pandemic and the social justice movement.   We believe that digital inclusion has a role to  play in tackling both of these issues. In 2020, HPE was recognized  as one of the 50 most  community-minded  companies in America   with the Points of Light  Civic 50 Award. While in-person volunteering  events were on pause, we  set a company record for  giving. In 2020, HPE Gives  distributed more than  $7.6 million in funds to   more than 4,800 causes. Now in its second year, the HPE Accelerating  Impact initiative supports technology-centered  nonprofits through donations, volunteerism,  and our partnership with accelerator  Fast Forward. These nonprofits are uniquely  positioned to enable inclusion for under- resourced communities through technology. In 2020, our Accelerating Impact initiative  included 40 tech nonprofits working on  diverse issues around the world. Of these,  more than 50% are led by a woman or gender  non-binary person and more than 50% are  led by a person of color. HPE delivered  $1.2 million in funding to these organizations  by inviting team members to direct $25 credits,  provided by the HPE Foundation, to the  organization of their choice. Twenty-nine  thousand team members participated, and  parts of our organization unlocked additional  grant funding through gamification. Since  its inception, HPE Accelerating Impact has  positively benefited the lives of more than  360 million people. The racial, gender, and economic disparities  in accessing high-quality STEM education  extends beyond its impact on students—it  represents a risk to the digital economy, which  is expected to see a shortage of 85 million tech  workers by 2030.24 The HPE STEM Initiative  deploys HPE-developed tools and resources  to inspire a rising generation of diverse tech  innovators and smart digital citizens. With our support, our partner Curated  Pathways to Innovation (CPI) is having  a positive impact on the STEM education  pipeline. The HPE Foundation is the  founding funder of CPI, an initiative that  aims to improve representation in STEM  fields through an AI-enabled, personalized  learning platform for students. In 2020, HPE helped CPI reach more students  in new geographies amid COVID-19 school  closures. CPI’s learning platform now features  HPE’s Cyber Squad, an online game that  increases cybersecurity awareness. When  in-person activities can safely resume, we  will launch the HPE STEM board, a small  microcontroller equipped with a set of  ready-to-use devices and sensors to teach  basic programming and robotics. We aim to  reach 1,500 students through Cyber Squad  and the HPE STEM board by the end of 2021,  with at least 50% of students being female  and at least 50% being ethnically diverse. In 2020, we provided financial contributions to support the work of  organizations dedicated to making a difference through tech, including  Hopebound and Movers & Shakers. Hopebound makes therapy more accessible to under-resourced  adolescents who are less likely to have access to mental health support.  In 2020, they completed the second pilot of their virtual therapy  platform, connecting youth in Atlanta, Georgia, and Newark, New Jersey,  to mental health clinicians for one-on-one weekly therapy sessions. Movers & Shakers uses augmented reality (AR) to write narratives  of underrepresented groups into American curricula. This year,  they launched their AR Monuments Project app and curriculum in  100 under-resourced schools to share the history of women, people  of color, and LGBTQIA+ icons. They are also developing a novel digital  learning experience called Unsung, which uses AR to tell the story of four  Black women singers who used their voices to fight for social change. In 2020, we provided ongoing assistance  to longstanding partners and channeled  funds to address critical issues and inequities  exacerbated by the pandemic. For safety  reasons, we suspended HPE Gives in-person  events, but we maintained our giving program  and emphasized virtual volunteering.  Recognizing the value of pro bono service, we  doubled the HPE Gives reward rate for this  form of volunteering. We know that skills-based  volunteering tends to be more impactful,  valuable for organizations, and also rewarding  for our team members; in 2021, we aim for  40% of all volunteering to be skills-based. Our workforce consistently reports that these  programs make them proud to work at HPE.  In 2020, 94% of team members who responded  to the Voice of the Workforce survey said it was  important that HPE supports the communities  in which we live and work. Given the increased  interest in virtual volunteering, we continue   to adapt our programs to meet that demand. 94% of team members that  responded to the Voice of  the Workforce survey said   it is important that HPE  supports the communities   in which we live and work. HPE connectivity kits contain Aruba products  that improve the reach and management of  Wi-Fi networks. Between March and October  2020, we identified 1,600 education and  healthcare organizations in 28 countries and  delivered kits, valued at nearly $26 million, to  improve connectivity.25 The kits enabled pop-up clinics, hospitals, and  testing centers to utilize and extend existing  Wi-Fi networks and to increase patient safety.  Schools, libraries, and other public buildings  used the kits to extend Wi-Fi into parking lots  and fields to enable socially distanced learning. Our team members were eager to help by  contributing their expertise on a pro bono basis.  For example, members of our HPE Artificial  Intelligence and Healthcare teams developed  text and data-mining tools to supported  COVID-19 knowledge sharing. Additionally,  network engineers in our Airheads Volunteer  Corps built network infrastructure for medical  facilities on the front lines. Beyond the significant work we did to  make our organization more inclusive, in  2020 the HPE Foundation provided financial  support to the NAACP Legal Defense  and Educational Fund, which uses litigation,  advocacy, and public education to fight  racial injustice. Additionally, HPE Gives provided team  members with a list of trusted local,  national, and international organizations  supporting racial justice who were eligible  for matching gifts. We leverage resources to address all phases   of a disaster—from preparedness to immediate  response to long-term recovery. Recognizing  the link between climate change and natural  disasters, we are expanding our approach to  support important climate resilience initiatives. In 2020, we featured matching campaigns  and giving opportunities for the Australian  bushfires, California wildfires, Puerto Rico  earthquakes, Philippines volcano eruption, and  the Beirut explosion. In total, these campaigns  raised $700,000. In addition, we continued our  virtual skills-based volunteering work with the Red Cross Missing Maps program to virtually  map buildings and roads to enable more  strategic and effective disaster relief around  the world. This year, 300 team members  participated, mapping 24,000 buildings. Compared to industry peers, HPE team  members over-deliver—our volunteers  average more than 19 volunteer hours   per year and our donors give an average   of more than $400 annually. In 2020, HPE Gives distributed a record  $7.6 million in monetary donations  and more than 3,500 team members contributed more than 109,000 volunteer  hours benefitting 5,200 nonprofit  organizations. Safety concerns due to the  pandemic reduced our in-person volunteering,  but donations increased by 13.5% compared  to the prior year. With the majority of our team members  working remotely, employee engagement in  our initiatives is more pivotal than ever before.  We will continue to engage team members  through our team member-nominated grants  program, Community Impact Grants, and we  will use HPE Gives to create opportunities  for team members to feel connected to each  other and their local communities. Since 2012, HPE has deployed a network of cloud-enabled eHealth  Centers (eHCs) to expand healthcare access across India. Due to the  urgent need for safe and efficient COVID-19 testing, we supported  India’s pandemic response by modifying 35 of our existing eHCs and  opened 15 additional purpose-built facilities for COVID-19 testing  and Outpatient Department Centers (OPD). The COVID Test Labs and OPDs provide underserved communities  with a clean environment for rapid testing and patient isolation. Utilizing  HPE technology, the sites experienced minimal downtime, and remote  troubleshooting capabilities helped limit the number of on-site staff  required. Since its inception in May 2020, HPE’s 50 COVID Test Labs  and OPDs have facilitated more than 230,000 patient visits. We win the right way, holding ourselves, our suppliers, and our partners to the highest  ethical standards. We protect our customers’ reputations by combating forced labor,  promoting accountability, and building security into everything we do. We share a  responsibility to protect people and the environment, and we uphold these standards  in our innovation principles, business decisions, and procurement choices. High ethical standards and strong governance are the  foundations of our business. Together, our team members and  Board demonstrate behavior and decision-making that protect  our reputation and the long-term interests of shareholders. Our approach to governance protects investor  interests, addresses and reduces fiduciary risk,  and informs our environmental, social, and  governance (ESG) strategy. Our CEO, Board  of Directors, and, in particular, the Nominating,  Governance, and Social Responsibility (NGSR)  Committee of the Board, oversee ESG issues  and are committed to ensuring that HPE  operates in a responsible manner. Through  its careful oversight and management of the  Company, the Board ensures that key ESG  policies, such as the HPE Code of Conduct and General Specification for the Environment, align  with best practices and stakeholders’ interests.  Our Board participates in five standing  committees: Our Board is one of the most diverse in  the industry—a quality that makes it more  capable of representing our workforce  and stakeholders. As of 2020, we have  13 Board members. Twelve members are  designated as independent directors under  HPE and NYSE standards. Five are women  and three identify with one or more diverse  groups in ethnicity, race, nationality, sexual  orientation, or gender identity. demands of our business. Our Board undergoes  a regular and robust diversity evaluation  process, led by the NGSR Committee, to ensure  it maintains a diversity of skills and experiences. We take a proactive approach to Board-level  succession planning by maintaining an  active pipeline of potential Board members.  We are well-positioned to add talent when the  need arises, and this helps us ensure business  and strategic continuity when there is a change  of leadership or other circumstances. For more details regarding HPE’s  robust corporate governance, see our  Proxy Statement. Our ESG strategy is an integral component of  the company’s long-term performance strategy.  The Living Progress team, which resides  within HPE Corporate Affairs and the Office of  Operations, Legal, and Administrative Affairs,  leads the effort to set HPE’s ESG strategy  by identifying, evaluating, and addressing  material ESG risks and opportunities alongside  subject matter experts across the business. and social performance. This includes the  Chief Operating Officer and CEO, who directly  oversee the Living Progress program In 2020, we expanded the Living Progress  Strategy Council to include a wider range  of internal stakeholders who will ensure  best-in-class ESG performance continues to  be a part of our culture and value proposition.  The Council is co-chaired by the senior  vice presidents of our Corporate Affairs  and Legal organizations. The Corporate Affairs team communicates with  the HPE Board of Directors on issues including  risks, impacts, target setting, and resiliency.  In addition, Corporate Affairs provides regular  updates to the NGSR Committee regarding  ESG matters and the company’s approach to  managing them, with particular emphasis on  matters that pose material risk to the business. There is a growing focus on ESG at the  Board level, and Corporate Affairs supports  the company’s leadership with briefings and  trainings on material ESG topics. In 2020,  Corporate Affairs met with the Board twice  on sustainability-related issues. ESG was  included as a key engagement topic in our  Board Outreach Program, which consists  of focused, one-on-one meetings with our  investors, and our Board remains actively  engaged with stakeholders on the rapidly  evolving ESG landscape through forums  such as the Community of Chairpersons  of the World Economic Forum. We link a portion of senior management  compensation to ESG factors and reward  team members for delivering near-term  results and long-term sustainable value.  For instance, in order to enhance our  human capital value, the HPE management  by objectives (MBO) approach includes  performance targets for retaining top talent  and meeting organizational diversity targets.  The Board of Directors’ Human Resources  and Compensation Committee oversees and  reviews executive compensation. Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)  program assesses and monitors company  risk. The program is overseen by HPE’s  Chief Financial Officer and supported by the  HPE Executive Risk Council, composed of an  executive from every function and business  unit across the company. ERM reports to the  Audit Committee of the board quarterly and   to the full Board of Directors annually.  Select board committees also have  responsibilities for oversight of risk  management, for instance the NGSR Committee  oversees risks associated with ESG matters  and the Human Resources and Compensation  Committee oversees employee relations  topics including inclusion and diversity and  pay equity. More information can be found  in the HPE Proxy Statement. HPE is committed to providing a safe work  environment for our team members and  ensuring continuity of operations in order to  provide seamless service to our customers  worldwide. Our global Business Continuity  Management (BCM) Policy requires business  group and global function leaders to develop,  maintain, and conduct periodic rigorous  testing of appropriate business continuity  strategies and plans for their critical  processes, operations, and facilities.  HPE has prepared for many imaginable  regional or local disaster scenarios, including  a pandemic, and will continue to consider  a range of potential events. Prior to the  COVID-19 pandemic, HPE initiated preparatory  actions for possible pandemics that are being  leveraged and applied as required. These  include pandemic incident simulations, reviews  of the resiliency of supply chains and customer  support models, and evaluation of critical  operations and contingency plans. See Our COVID-19 Response for information  regarding the measures HPE has taken  to ensure business continuity during this  global pandemic. In addition, all HPE team members receive  annual training on risk management principles  such as cybersecurity and global trade. In  2020, 6,100 team members completed our  Global Resiliency Awareness course. HPE fulfills taxation responsibilities in every  location where we operate, and we advocate  for tax reform that supports an evolving IT  industry in a modern marketplace. HPE’s tax  affairs are managed to protect the company’s  wider corporate reputation in line with  our overall high standards of governance.  HPE maintains appropriate tax controls and  documentation processes, which regularly  undergo internal audits. We reinforce ethics training to ensure we  maintain the highest ethical standards across  our global workforce. We expect team members  to take responsibility for their own actions and  do what is right—behaving with honesty and  integrity, even in challenging circumstances. Corrupt behavior is unacceptable, and we  do not tolerate it in any form. We comply  with anti-corruption laws in every country  in which we do business, and through  our anti-corruption program, we clearly  communicate expectations to our workforce.  Our program includes: HPE is recognized  as one of the World’s  Most Ethical Companies by  the Ethisphere Institute. Our core document is the HPE Standards  of Business Conduct (SBC), which governs  our business practices and provides  guidance for ethical decision-making. Our  Ethics and Compliance Committee and our  Audit Committee oversee our approach  to ethical conduct, with the HPE Board of  Directors taking ultimate responsibility. If something is not right, we want to know.   We encourage anyone with a concern or  question about business conduct to raise it  through one of our reporting channels, without  fear of reprisal. Reports are confidential and can  be made anonymously where local law allows. We track the nature of ethics and compliance  items reported to us each year. In 2020,  the majority of issues related to labor law  and misuse of assets. Breaches of ethical  behavior are reported in our Data Summary. Clear and consistent communication  reinforces the importance of ethical behavior  amongst our workforce. Our training and  communication approach includes: In 2020, we modified the format of our  SBC training with the goal of increasing the  knowledge our team members retain and  improving the training experience. During  the year, we began delivering the content in  four shorter modules that cover anti-corruption,  books and records, and anti-harassment,  among other SBC topics. SBC training, with new hires required  to complete it within 30 days of joining  HPE. Board members take SBC training  every two years Our extensive Supply Chain Responsibility  program guides our approach to assessing risks,  monitoring and improving performance, and  working collaboratively with suppliers to share  knowledge on key issues. We are proud to be   a responsible partner for our customers. At HPE, we hold our supply chain partners to  high ethical standards and regularly audit and  engage with suppliers to ensure maintenance  of our standards throughout our supply chain.  Through our Supply Chain Responsibility  (SCR) program, we aim to protect and elevate  workers; reduce global and community  environmental impact; and benefit our company,  our business partners, and our customers. Our longstanding SCR program allows us to  assess social and environmental risks in our  supply chain and set rigorous targets and  standards, including the industry’s first Foreign  Migrant Worker Standard and our first-of-its- kind science-based supply chain greenhouse  gas (GHG) emission reduction goal. While we  continue to hone our program and policies to  maintain best practices and address emerging  risks, we also work to further elevate supply  chain social and environmental standards by  sharing knowledge and collaborating with our  suppliers and industry partners. Read more about our approach to supply chain  responsibility, including our program’s purpose,  objectives, and procedures. In partnership with our suppliers, we have  taken many steps to review and respond to  the risks to workers in our supply chain and  to protect worker well-being and strengthen  operational resiliency during the pandemic. According to the International Labour  Organization (ILO) and the UN,26 there has  been an increase in forced labor and loss of  income due to the economic consequences  of the pandemic. While our direct supply  chain reported minimal impacts, movement  restrictions, preventative quarantine measures,  and short-term labor shortages did contribute  globally to heightened risks to workers’  mental and physical health. In response, HPE held several capacity- and  capability-development opportunities for  suppliers and increased the frequency of one- on-one engagements with more than 60% of  our supplier spend. We collaborated with peers  and suppliers to offer third-party expert virtual  trainings on the topics of elevating worker  voice and combating forced labor during a  time of increased vulnerabilities to workers. We  also met with suppliers to better understand  factories’ unique challenges and how HPE  can better support the prioritization of worker  well-being throughout times of disruption and  challenge. We used these conversations to  evaluate supplier responses to the pandemic,  gather best practices, and share opportunities  for continual improvement based on leading  practices from external stakeholders and our  own supply base. Although travel restrictions limited our ability  to carry out on-site audits, our suppliers did  not waiver in their commitment to uphold  high standards and provided strong plans  and remote evidence of progress. Where  appropriate, we granted suppliers a reasonable  extension in their 2020 audit deadlines.  The Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)  implemented and validated a protocol for  remote auditing for countries with on-site  restrictions, however no remote audits have  been undertaken at any of our supplier facilities  as of the end of 2020. Learn more about our  SCR audit results. Read more information regarding our  SCR COVID-19 response. Every individual has the right to choose the  work they do and to be treated with dignity   and respect. We believe the business  community must play a vital role in the effort  to eradicate forced labor and, more specifically,  must implement impactful policies, assess and  respond to risks, and support remediation  activities throughout their supply chains. Anyone concerned about potential human  trafficking or forced labor in our supply chain,  including suppliers’ workers, can use a range   of channels to report it. Read more about our channels for raising  concerns here. How we map and respond to risks   of forced labor in our supply chain Forced labor in our supply chain remains a top  priority for HPE and we focus on two groups  of workers vulnerable to exploitation: migrant  workers and student and dispatch workers.  We respond to these risks with a step-by-step  process to detect and address unacceptable  labor practices in our supply chain. In instances  where we work with a new direct or indirect  supplier or issue an RFP for a large service  contract, we assess the organization to ensure  compliance and alignment with our standards.  If we identify major or critical issues during  this phase, we require the potential supplier to  commit to and demonstrate improvement prior  to working with us. Social and Environmental Responsibility (SER)  performance evaluation results directly  influence our purchasing decisions. Additionally,  HPE trains our sourcing managers on how to  spot modern slavery and its risks in our supply  chain and maintain ethical and responsible  purchasing practices. For instance, in 2020,  we co-facilitated trainings with Mekong Club  for buyers on the topic of modern slavery  and ethical practices. To protect the rights of student and dispatch  workers at our suppliers’ plants in China, we  require suppliers to adhere to our Student  and Dispatch Worker Standard for Supplier  Facilities in the People’s Republic of China. We protect migrant workers by requiring  supplier compliance with our Foreign Migrant  Worker Standard. Our standard upholds  the Employer Pays Principle, protecting  workers from having to pay fees to obtain a  job. If we find that one of our suppliers is in  violation of this requirement, we require all  recruitment fees to be reimbursed. Looking  ahead into 2021, we will work with our  major suppliers to request that they formally  commit to the Employer Pays Principle, as  well as to ensure that they provide evidence  of their commitment to a policy of zero fees.  Our goal is to have 100 percent of our major  suppliers demonstrate their commitment by  the end of 2022. In 2020, KnowTheChain, a resource for  companies and investors to understand  and address forced labor risks, ranked  HPE first out of 40 companies in their ICT  sector benchmark for our efforts to address  forced labor in our supply chain. HPE also  increased our score and placed second in  the ICT manufacturing sector on the 2020  Corporate Human Rights Benchmark. HPE received top scores   from KnowTheChain   and the Corporate  Human Rights Benchmark. In 2020, HPE worked with four suppliers to reimburse a half-million  dollars to workers who had paid recruitment fees to agencies. Cases of  recruitment fees are deemed critical and, in 2020, we established a more  robust program and tools to drive our work with suppliers where such  fees were discovered. This program supported three suppliers to work  more quickly and effectively on their previous cases of reimbursement,  and one new supplier in 2020. This new supplier represented our  one critical issue from 2020: A finding of five workers at a supplier  manufacturing facility based in Malaysia who paid fees including medical,  immigration security clearance, orientation, and agency fees back in  their home country of Nepal. Upon further review across the workforce,  the supplier identified additional instances of recruitment charges and agreed to process reimbursement payments for all migrants from Nepal,  regardless of whether they reported fees or had evidence. The supplier openly engaged with HPE, quickly refining and improving  its reimbursement program, ensuring worker voice and consultation  into the reimbursement plan, provided evidence that workers were  fully reimbursed within three months of HPE discovering the finding,  and completed a successful third party closure audit. In addition, the  supplier worked with HPE to survey workers across the entire company  and found very high rates of understanding of the site’s no-fees policy,  satisfaction with the reimbursement program, and overall well-being  and workplace satisfaction. The global recruitment industry spans multiple  sectors; we engage with partners within and  outside of the IT industry to drive wider change  in working practices. HPE also takes initiative to  promote large-scale collaboration between the  public and private sectors to understand and  address the root causes of modern slavery and  forced labor. In 2020, HPE joined a small group  of RBA members to pilot a worker engagement  survey and training tool, RBA Voices.  Additionally, alongside our industry peers,  HPE provided recommendations and put  forward formal proposals to advance worker  protections within the RBA’s updated  Code of Conduct, which launched in 2021. In 2020, we developed metrics in new areas  and refined others to make more informed,  evidence-based decisions that will have a  positive impact on workers, our supplier  performance, and HPE. These metrics focus  on supplier engagement, demonstrable  supplier improvement, worker voice, and  freely chosen employment. Our Board of Directors recognizes the leading  role we play, and reviews and approves our  commitments to the California Transparency in  Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern  Slavery Act of 2015. Read our 2020 statement. Learn more about our approach. We embed ethics into how we select, onboard,  and manage relationships with our supply chain  partners. In the supplier selection process and,  prior to finalizing requirements and contracts  with major suppliers, our Global Operations  team conducts assessments to ensure that  SER issues—including social responsibility,  responsible sourcing of minerals, and the  environment—are prioritized. Compliance and  engagement with our SER requirements are  included in supplier contracts. Once a supplier is onboarded, suppliers  undertake regular, independent audits   against our Supplier Code of Conduct. We  require suppliers to cascade our Supplier  Code of Conduct27 within their own supply  chains and expect them to engage with  their sub-tier suppliers to uphold our SER  standards and requirements. We also include SER indicators in our  supplier scorecard reviews, ensuring SER  topics are regularly integrated into business  discussions and decisions. See the 2020 Data Summary for  comprehensive supplier performance. We have long-term relationships with many of  our suppliers and invest resources to deliver  trainings and capability development programs  for all suppliers. For example, in 2020, HPE: companies (Intel®, Seagate, Western Digital,  and HP Inc.) for 400 supplier representatives  on the topic of forced labor and the impacts  of COVID-19 on workers consultant, HPE and HP Inc. provided  two virtual supplier trainings in China on  managing forced and bonded labor risks,  and ensuring worker voice. HPE invited  all suppliers across China. Approximately  150 HPE supplier participants attended Leadership and transparency are at the core of  our Supply Chain Responsibility (SCR) program.  We engage with peers, industry bodies, and  cross-sectoral organizations, including the  RBA and the Global Business Initiative to  share best practices and new challenges  and to advance supply chain programs and  standards beyond our own business. We are  also a founding member of the Leadership  Group for Responsible Recruitment, focused  on promoting ethical recruitment through  the Employer Pays Principle and combating  the exploitation of migrant workers. We have a responsibility to ensure that the  materials used to make HPE products— including metals found in most technology  products such as tin, tantalum, tungsten,  and gold (3TG)—are ethically sourced.  The mining, sale, and use of minerals from  Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas  (CAHRAs), including the Democratic Republic  of the Congo (DRC) and the DRC-adjoining  countries, has been associated with negative  social and environmental impacts, including  funding violent groups that commit human  rights offenses. Through our responsible  minerals program, we work to advance  responsible mineral sourcing from CAHRAs  used in our products. We strive to improve our mineral-sourcing  transparency within our supply chain and  achieve DRC conflict-free sourcing28 for  our products. Ultimately, we aim to improve  conditions in CAHRAs identified by the  presence of armed conflict, widespread  violence, or other human rights abuses.  Because we believe it is important to avoid  the economic and humanitarian impacts  associated with an embargo of the DRC region,  we continue to source from, and do not prohibit  our suppliers from sourcing from the DRC, the  DRC-adjoining countries, and other CAHRAs. The mineral supply chain is complex and global,  with several stages from mine to product.  HPE does not directly purchase minerals from  raw material providers; due to our downstream position in the supply chain, we place strong  importance on the value of multi-stakeholder  collaboration. Since 2008, HPE has been a  member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative  (RMI), through which we engage with a variety  of industry members, governments, nonprofits,  and supply chain stakeholders to influence  and advance the responsible sourcing of  minerals. We engage in RMI and participate  in its member working groups, including the  Smelter Engagement Team, Due Diligence  Practices Team, and the Gold Team. In 2020, we continued to encourage  India-based gold refiners to participate  in responsible sourcing assessments.  HPE worked with peer companies, RMI,  and India’s National Stock Exchange to  encourage refiners’ participation. We  supported several educational town halls for  refiners, and regularly wrote to refiners to  express our support of their incorporation of  responsible sourcing practices. The OECD  hosted follow-up workshops to its 2019  Indian Responsible Gold Sourcing Workshop,  which HPE attended virtually in 2020. In 2020, 95% of smelters   and refiners reported   by suppliers made   progress toward DRC  conflict-free status. To increase smelters’ participation in the  RMAP audit program, HPE made financial  contributions to RMI’s Audit Fund for  Participating Smelters and the Upstream Due  Diligence Fund, which support smelters and  refiners with the costs of audits and mine-level  assessments. HPE also supports the ongoing  development and roll-out of a new shared  industry tool, the Minerals Grievance Platform,  which we are piloting to report, track, and  manage critical incidents linked to minerals  supply chains. We provide feedback to  strengthen the platform’s effectiveness and  encourage its widespread use. Read more about our approach to  Responsible Sourcing of Minerals in our  supply chain and how HPE’s program  aligns with the internationally recognized  OECD Due Diligence Guidance30 for  Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals  from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. In 2020, we facilitated outreach to more than  50 facilities to encourage their involvement  in RMAP or another independent assessment  program aligned with the OECD Due Diligence  Guidance. Additionally, in 2020, 95%29 of  smelters and refiners reported by suppliers  made progress toward DRC conflict-free  status. Our annual Conflict Minerals Report—  required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission—shows the status of smelters  and refiners involved in our supply chain. Investing in mining communities is an  important aspect of responsible sourcing. In  2018, HPE became one of the first donors  outside of the DRC region to make a financial  contribution to KEMET Corporation’s  Friends of Kisengo organization, a nonprofit  dedicated to effectively and sustainably  improving people’s lives in the DRC through an  integrated rural development program focused  on infrastructure, health, education, and  environmental development. HPE continues to  support the mission of Friends of Kisengo by  financially contributing to childhood education  in the Kisengo tantalum-mining community. In  2020, we doubled our impact and funded two  months of school expenses for 1,500 children  in the mining community of Kisengo, DRC. We treat all people—inside and outside the company—with fairness,  dignity, and respect. We actively pursue ways to demonstrate our  respect for human rights, and embed it in how we operate. As we approach the 10-year anniversary of the  establishment of the United Nations Guiding  Principles on Business and Human Rights  (UNGPs), HPE is proud to have been  committed to these principles for the past  decade. We believe that the basic freedoms  and standards of treatment to which all people  are entitled are universal, and upholding  these rights is fundamental to our values. We  respect the rights of all individuals impacted  by our work and that of our partners. In  particular, we respect the rights of vulnerable  groups including migrants, children, and  women, as defined in the International  Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on  Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. As we head into 2021, HPE is relaunching our  company-wide Global Human Rights Policy  to strengthen our pledge to global standards,  clarify our commitment to respect the rights  of vulnerable groups and human rights  defenders, and better explain how we put our  commitment into practice. We also established new risk-sensing and  due diligence processes related to responsible  product development for HPE’s latest advances  in artificial intelligence (AI) and worked in  partnership with our suppliers to elevate  worker well-being during the pandemic,  which heightened vulnerabilities for workers  around the globe. We improved our tools for  identifying forced labor in the supply chain  and supported the repayment of recruitment  fees to workers who were wrongfully charged  when seeking employment through recruitment  agents. Lastly, this year we provided new  opportunities for our staff to volunteer with  NGOs to combat modern slavery in the  communities where they live and work. HPE continues to receive recognition for  our work in human rights and achieved a  top ranking in KnowTheChain, second in  the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark,  a near-perfect score in Dow Jones  Sustainability Index, and were rated as one  of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by  Ethisphere. The HPE Office of Operations,  Legal, and Administrative Affairs (OLAA)  guides our approach and works across the business to address specific issues as  they arise. Our Human Rights program,  which is part of HPE’s Global Social and  Ethical Responsibility team and sits within  OLAA, supervises the day-to-day oversight  responsibilities of our human rights  policies and initiatives. Any parties concerned about activities within  our value chain should contact us immediately  through one of our reporting channels. We  offer uninterrupted access, anonymity, and  translation services to make it easy for anyone  to raise a concern, and we promote our hotline  where opportunities arise, such as when  interviewing suppliers’ workers. In 2019, HPE conducted a company-wide  Human Rights Impact Assessment with an  external evaluator, Article One, to better  understand our risks, identify gaps in our  due diligence, and update our strategy and  processes in order to more effectively manage  our human rights risks. The assessment  identified HPE’s most salient risks, all of which  are common throughout the IT industry:  responsible product development, responsible  use, modern slavery and decent work,  responsible sourcing of minerals, inclusion  and diversity, and water use. We plan to  conduct this assessment on a regular basis  and to reevaluate our salient risks as needed. At HPE, we recognize that AI holds the  potential to solve some of society’s most  pressing challenges, yet it also brings new  human rights risks, including discrimination  from algorithmic bias, data privacy concerns,  and threats to freedom of expression. These  unique risks can result in harm—especially to the vulnerable, oppressed, or economically  disadvantaged—that may be further  exacerbated when paired with other emerging  technologies, such as the Internet of Things. We are establishing new risk-sensing and  due diligence processes related to the use  and development of AI to ensure beneficial  outcomes for people, businesses, and  public services. In 2020, we launched a  new AI governance system that includes an  AI Ethics Advisory Board to shape and guide  our policies and approach to AI ethics. We also created a new working group to  identify and assess ethical risk and develop  innovative operational guidance and  solutions. Both groups provide company-wide  representation in order to secure leadership  commitment, to benefit from the expertise of  team members around the company, and to  ensure that decisions made by our governance  body are enforced. This working group will  build employee awareness across the company  and develop tailored guidance for developers  and end users to encourage compliance and  engage with external stakeholders. In 2020, we developed our inaugural AI Ethics  Principles, which provide a framework for  our journey to develop responsible products  by design and provide a starting point for  discussions and engagement with partners  and customers. These ethical principles will  be embedded throughout our company to  ensure that HPE continues to do business  the right way. We understand that we have  the responsibility to identify potential risks, mitigate potential negative impacts, and  refuse to do business in any situation where  AI applications are not consistent with our  values. These principles are ingrained across  the company through risk mitigation and  internal controls. We will track our assessment  results and the impact of our work, seeking  to continuously learn and improve. We actively participate in the Business  Roundtable on Human Rights and AI to  promote collaboration and action across the  tech, business, and human rights communities.  We join regular meetings to identify best  practices on embedding human rights into  the development and deployment of AI and  to understand trends from guest experts  of various backgrounds. The responsible use of our products is another  salient risk for HPE. We recognize that we share  a responsibility to ensure our products are not  used with any mal-intent or in ways that could  violate the rights and freedoms of individuals. In 2020, HPE joined our industry peers  in informal workshops and meetings  hosted by the World Economic Forum  to discuss how organizations in the tech  sector can further address the responsible  use of new and disruptive technologies  and how these technologies should be  managed and governed. Privacy-enabled and secure Human-focused Inclusive Responsible Robust AI systems should be designed and used to respect individuals’ privacy,  be secure, and minimize the risk of errors or unintended or malicious use. AI systems should respect human rights and abide by applicable laws  throughout their lifecycle. AI systems should be designed and used with  mechanisms and safeguards, such as capacity for human determination  or oversight, to support responsible use and prevent misuse. AI systems should be designed and used to be inclusive, minimize  harmful bias, and ensure fair and equal treatment and access for  individuals. AI systems should be designed for responsible use and mechanisms  should be put in place to ensure accountability. AI systems should  disclose information to allow a general understanding of the AI, including  how AI can consume resources and influence outcomes. AI-driven  outcomes should be open to challenge. AI systems should be subject to a hazard-based safety engineering  approach throughout their lifecycle to build in quality testing and, where  possible, technical safeguards to ensure they function appropriately,  minimize the risk of misuse, and the impact of failure. Our HPE Global Human Rights Policy guides  us and helps us reduce the potential for our  products or services to be used by companies,  individuals, organizations, or regimes to cause  violations of people’s human rights. Through  our policy, we: activities in appropriate circumstances.  One of the ways we implement this is by  partnering with our legal teams, building  awareness and equipping them with tools  to monitor and identify high-risk sales  opportunities, and escalating them to our  human rights desk for further risk assessment We establish leading policy, develop internal  procedures for robust due diligence, build  awareness across our company and partners,  and strengthen systems to hold ourselves  accountable. We adopted recommendations  provided by our Human Rights Impact  Assessment to refine our strategy and develop  our new roadmap for continuous improvement,  which includes the following principles: We manage workplace risk through  our Standards of Business Conduct,  our Nondiscrimination Policy, and our  Harassment-Free Work Environment  Policy. Our workforce also cares deeply  about supporting human rights. In 2020,  we launched a new initiative titled “HoPE”,  encouraging employees to volunteer in  their local communities with organizations  that work to combat modern slavery  and support survivors of human trafficking. The volume of digital data is growing at an  exponential rate. By 2025, worldwide data  is expected to grow 61%, with the majority  generated by IoT devices.31 As data increases,  so do the threats against it. According to  Accenture, the number of security breaches  grew 67% over the last five years and  11% from 2018 to 2019.32 Organizations and governments are spending  more than ever to deal with the costs of  increasingly sophisticated attacks. In 2021,  the cost of cybercrime globally reached  $1 trillion.33 By 2025, estimates suggest this  cost will increase to $10.5 trillion.34 We prioritize data security at every step of  our value chain, safeguarding our operations,  as well as our customers’ businesses. In 2020, the cybersecurity landscape became  even more complex due to COVID-19. The  pandemic required a rapid transition to remote  working, shifting IT infrastructure needs  to the edge. With more intelligent devices  independently processing information, it’s  essential that data be secured at every point. A known threat in our industry is malicious  firmware, hardware, and malware entering  products in the supply chain. We protect  against this by: Our networks are built to withstand a growing  volume and variety of threats including  cyberattacks and unexpected demands. Our  technology also helps customers keep pace  with evolving global security standards and  compliance requirements. $10.5T In 2020, we took another step toward our  mission to provide customers with the highest  level of cyber assurance. Through our newly  launched HPE Trusted Supply Chain program,  vetted HPE team members manufacture  servers in highly secure U.S. facilities. The result  is the new HPE ProLiant DL380T, a server  with advanced security features, reduced  sourcing risk, and verifiable cyber assurance.  This program makes HPE the only major server  manufacturer to produce the world’s most  secure industry-standard, made-in-the-USA  servers.35 In 2021, we will expand this program  to other products in our portfolio, which will be  offered as a service through HPE GreenLake  for a highly secure cloud experience. In 2020, we introduced certificate-based  identities and verifications, which allows our  products to attest to their own identity and  configuration, making them more secure. To further this work, we’re collaborating  with peers and leading experts from the  National Institute of Security and Technology  (NIST) to test, refine, and document holistic  cybersecurity solutions for our industry. We continue to improve product technology  and capabilities to anticipate evolving threats.  Our Silicon Root of Trust technology gives our  servers an immutable fingerprint that prevents  malicious code from corrupting essential  firmware. As of 2020, HPE remains the only  server manufacturer to design and develop our  own silicon, making our Gen10 servers some of  the most secure on the market. HPE is also the  only company offering servers with Commercial  National Security Algorithm Suite (CNSA)  encryption as a standard. CNSA represents the  most advanced security algorithm available for  commercial systems. We help keep customer data secure through  software platforms and services that protect  against new vulnerabilities, detect intruders fast,  and enable quick recovery from an attack. Our  solutions include: Our Hewlett Packard Pathfinder program  invests in and scales new businesses that offer  innovative data-security services. This program  allows us to continue providing customers  state-of-the-art security to defend against  cybercrime. In 2020, HPE supported a number  of companies through Pathfinder, including  Synack. Synack creates proprietary technology  to accelerate the search of critical software  vulnerabilities. With funding they received  in 2020, the company plans to combine  hacker talent with artificial intelligence and  machine learning to find and fix exploitable  vulnerabilities at scale. The rapid shift from on-site to remote working posed significant  logistical challenges for many organizations, including our  customers. These challenges were compounded by exposing  a new set of cybersecurity vulnerabilities at the edge. Into 2021, we will continue to monitor new and evolving threats  at the edge to help our customers and their employees stay secure. For the Irish Prison Service, video surveillance is  fundamental to ensuring the safety and security of  prisoners and staff. Across their 12 facilities, they have  approximately 5,000 cameras continuously recording.  Anything captured on video could serve as crucial  evidence for investigating an incident. The Irish Prison Service required a solution with enough  storage for their high-definition cameras while also  providing a secure and systematic way to delete footage  after a certain number of years. HPE’s intelligent data  storage solution achieved just that. We combined the security and reliability of our servers  with the software and cloud capabilities of CTERA Networks  and Scality, respectively. HPE ProLiant DL380 Servers  now capture 24x7 video at each prison facility. Their  long-term off-site storage uses HPE Apollo 4000 systems  and Scality cloud to securely retain video of incidents.  HPE Proactive Care from HPE Pointnext Services provides  the technical support for our servers to ensure no lapse in  storage or security. “Video data has a huge impact on the safety  and security of our staff and prisoners. People’s  lives are at stake in extreme cases. Therefore,  it’s hugely important that there are safeguards  around how the data is stored and secured. HPE  and Scality provide us with assurance that those  safeguards are in place and that they will work.” Team members are our first line of defense  for protecting our business against  cybersecurity risks. We ensure they remain  informed of evolving threats and regulations  through training, including: To further protect HPE operations, we  have an always-on Security Operations  Center that continuously monitors the HPE  environment in real time. It protects against  a wide range of attacks such as phishing,  malware, hacking, ransomware, human error,  and more. Its objective is to: In 2020, as we shifted team members to  remote working, we increased our focus  on cybersecurity at the edge. We adapted  our security tools to increase edge protection  coupled with team-member training and  awareness campaigns. Cybercrime is not something HPE can  tackle alone. We continue to work with  governments globally and participate  in external engagements to promote  cybersecurity. For instance, in 2020, we  sponsored a study with the Ponemon Institute,  “Closing the IT Security Gaps”, which outlines  best practices from organizations most  effective in closing their IT security gaps. On average, the Center reviews 6.5 billion  security events per day, with around  100 of those cases requiring further  investigation. We share insights from these  events across the company through our  Fusion initiative, which helps keep team  members up to date on evolving risks. We are also focused on empowering diverse  talent to enter IT and cybersecurity roles.  We continue to recruit from Historically Black  Colleges and Universities (HBCU) in Texas,  including offering internships and hosting  meet-and-greets with students to engage them  on careers in cybersecurity. We also partner  with the Girl Scouts Nation’s Capital to offer  their troops cybersecurity curriculum. We assess our cybersecurity practices and  preparedness through internal audits, and we  use a third party to audit our IT infrastructure  and validate our cybersecurity preparedness.  In addition, when HPE acquires a company,  we conduct a thorough assessment of their  cybersecurity protocols. Protecting personal data and individuals’ privacy  is a priority for business and society. HPE is a  leader in practices that protect data, and we  comply with all regulations across global markets. We take our responsibility to protect personal  data seriously, whether in our business  operations or the products and solutions  we develop. COVID-19 presented new privacy and security  challenges related to workplace safety and  remote working. This, together with the  growing body of privacy laws around the world,  requires organizations to adapt and evolve  privacy programs to maintain compliance  and ethical practices. We take a holistic approach to ensure  compliance and to protect the privacy of our  team members, customers, and business  partners. HPE’s robust privacy governance  and suite of internal accountability measures  help us meet global regulatory requirements  and rising stakeholder expectations. We are  also building privacy protections into products  and tackling a major industry challenge— defining ethical principles for our use and  development of AI-enabled technology. The HPE Privacy Office is responsible for our  global privacy program and works closely with  HPE Cyber Security and HPE business units.  In 2020, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index  awarded HPE the top score in our industry  for privacy protection. The Privacy Office leads  the Privacy Compliance Committee, a group  of senior HPE leaders who oversee our global  privacy program and compliance work. The Privacy Compliance Committee is  responsible for reviewing privacy risks  and elevating concerns to the Ethics  and Compliance Committee in order to  ensure senior-level engagement regarding  significant privacy matters.. In 2020, we prepared for Brazil’s national  data protection law, which entered into effect  in August, and we began preparing for the  California Privacy Rights Act that will come  into effect in 2023. In 2021, we will focus on  new privacy laws in the Asia Pacific region  and the maintenance of international data  transfers from Europe. AI-enabled technology can create significant  benefits for society, uncovering insights with  unprecedented efficiency. However, without  appropriate safeguards in place, the rapid,  unfettered adoption of AI-enabled technology  could pose a threat to basic human rights,  including the right to privacy. We seek to  develop and use AI in a responsible and  ethical manner, so we are tackling this  challenge head-on. In 2020, we established an AI Ethics  Advisory Board tasked with developing  AI principles for our products and  third-party tools that utilize AI. We will begin  operationalizing our AI ethical principles  into practice in 2021 by developing the  principles within our products and services. Our privacy policies lay the foundation of our  privacy program and are regularly reviewed  to ensure we remain aligned with new laws.  Our Global Privacy Policy outlines the general  privacy and data-protection principles we  follow. The HPE Privacy Statement and the  Employee Privacy Policy inform customers,  partners, and team members about our privacy  practices and explain what personal data we  collect, use, disclose, and transfer. The policies  also detail the choices individuals can make  and rights they can exercise in relation to their  personal data, including the right to access,  rectify, and delete personal data. We have tools and documented processes for  responding to incidents and data-subjects’  rights requests in accordance with legal  requirements. In 2020, we adopted a new,  centralized platform that has streamlined and  expedited our ability to process and respond  to data subject rights requests. HPE is among a short list of companies  who have approval from data-protection  regulators in Europe for our Binding  Corporate Rules for Controllers and Binding  Corporate Rules for Processors to facilitate  international data transfers. HPE also  complies with the Asia Pacific Economic  Cooperation (APEC) Cross-Border Privacy  Rules System, which provides a framework  for organizations to ensure the protection  of personal data transferred among  participating APEC economies. We continue to audit our privacy and  information governance programs and  business operations to ensure compliance.  Audits are conducted by the HPE Internal  Audit function and the Ethics and Compliance  Office audit team to evaluate our governance,  risk management, and controls. We educate all HPE team members on privacy  through our mandatory annual Standards of  Business Conduct training and other privacy  training modules. Team members in our  Human Resources (HR) function are required to complete additional privacy training to  access HR systems and refresher training  approximately every 18 months. To extend privacy and security across our  supply chain, we conduct due diligence on  suppliers and obtain specific contractual  commitments to ensure data is properly  protected and used appropriately. Our Privacy Impact and Compliance  Assessment (PICA) tool helps us integrate  privacy protection and a privacy-by-design  approach into our business practices, products,  and services. In 2020, we launched an  Aruba Contact Tracing solution for enterprise  customers, which supports their workers’  return-to-office plans following the COVID-19  pandemic. The solution enables contact  tracing through Aruba Wi-Fi networks and the  maintenance of workplace safety. By utilizing  a privacy-by-design approach, we built in  features that will help customers comply with  privacy laws and manage privacy risks when  deploying the solution in their workspaces. • Collaborating with the U.S. White House We advocate for policies that will help society thrive in a digital-first  world while ensuring the sustainable growth of our business.   We relentlessly pursue smarter, better ways of using IT that protect  citizens and consumers and are cost-effective and sustainable. In 2020, we partnered with business and  nonprofits to support government responses   to COVID-19. Our work included: Read Our COVID-19 Response for more  information. India to aid local governments in controlling  the outbreak of COVID-19 essential workers to maintain critical  IT infrastructure throughout the crisis  in numerous countries, including the U.S.,  UK, and India For governments to thrive in a digital-first  world, they must be able to quickly respond to  changing public needs. Yet, many public-sector  organizations have been slow to pursue a  “cloud-smart”36 digital transformation, despite  its benefits of efficiency, security, and scalability.  As a trusted advisor for governments in their  digital transformation journeys, HPE advises  on cloud strategy and the benefits of hybrid  cloud solutions and updated procurement  models. By offering our entire portfolio as  a service, we provide the best of the public  cloud on-premises and help reduce the barriers  to digital transformation through cost-effective,  sustainable IT solutions. Accelerating digital transformation within  the public sector requires public-private  collaboration. HPE convenes European  public-sector decision makers annually during  the HPE Public Sector Transformation  conference. In 2020, the event focused on  cloud and data infrastructures for resilient  digital governments in a post-COVID-19 era.  HPE also joined the EU GaiaX Foundation,  an organization that supports the European  decentralized cloud federation by enhancing In 2020, HPE signed a Memorandum of  Understanding (MOU) with Crown Commercial  Services, the central buying entity on behalf  of the UK public sector. The agreement will  provide public-sector organizations access  to discounted HPE technologies that will  reduce complexity, boost innovation, and bring  cost efficiency to their digital transformation  efforts. The MOU will also enable public-sector  organizations to adopt HPE GreenLake’s  hybrid cloud pay-per-use model when  acquiring hybrid cloud services. data ownership and revenue sharing across  the European continent. HPE also actively  participates in groups such as the World  Economic Forum’s Global Future Council on  Agile Governance to drive regulatory reform  that unleashes innovation while supporting  public safety and security. During 2020, we worked with government  stakeholders to navigate the transition of  the UK from the European Union. Through  this partnership, we successfully prepared  our supply chain and solutions for a new  trading environment in the UK while ensuring  continuity of supply for our products and  services throughout the transition period. In 2020, the Federal Communications  Commission voted unanimously to open the  entire 6 GHz band for unlicensed use, marking  the biggest change to Wi-Fi in almost 20 years  and dramatically expanding the market for  Aruba’s solutions and offerings. Wi-Fi communications are more critical than  ever before, yet increasing Wi-Fi congestion  limits access and usability. HPE has long  been an advocate for increasing wireless  bandwidth and capacity through the 6 GHz  radio spectrum, which will provide faster  wireless networks with better security. While cellular and Wi-Fi have enabled the  interconnected lives we lead, 5G and Wi-Fi  together will transform businesses, economies,  and nations. The possibilities of 5G technology  are significant, yet so are the risks if it’s not  secure. HPE has promoted public policy in As a global leader in digital services  infrastructure, we recognize our role in  advancing digital inclusion, ensuring that  every business, government, organization,  and individual has access to essential  IT infrastructure and services. In 2020,  examples of our efforts include: India, Italy, the UK and U.S. that supports  national strategies to secure 5G and next  generation wireless communications. HPE  CEO Antonio Neri participates in the U.S.-India  CEO Forum, where he co-chairs a working  group on the future of connectivity across India  with a focus on 5G and 6 GHz implementation. Kern County, California, is home to almost 1 million residents and is  comprised of more than 40 different government departments. Prior  to partnering with HPE, every department had a separate IT provider— creating a system which was enormously complex and costly to manage.  Kern County’s vision was simple: Establish one unified framework so  that all county departments can benefit from the same platform and  economies of scale. In 2020, we implemented HPE GreenLake, our hybrid cloud solution,  for Kern County. Through GreenLake, all departments now have  access to secure cloud services and the county can run, manage,  and optimize their entire IT estate. Any backend issues are fully  covered through HPE Pointnext Services, reducing the IT administration  burden on the county. With HPE GreenLake, Kern County has gained the agility, flexibility,  and innovation of the cloud, while preserving the compliance,  governance, cost controls, and visibility of running its applications  and workloads on-site. As of 2020, HPE GreenLake supports more  than 75% of Kern County’s departments. In 2020, HPE supported numerous  litigation efforts and amicus briefs to  challenge regulations and Executive Orders  targeting immigrant populations in the U.S.  This included an amicus brief to the U.S.  Supreme Court that commended the decision  to rescind the Department of Homeland  Security’s termination of Deferred Action  for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). For the second year, HPE participated  in French president Emmanuel Macron’s  Tech for Good global initiative and pledged  to mitigate the negative externalities of  technology’s proliferation by signing onto the  Tech for Good Call. With HPE CEO Antonio Neri  as co-chair, the initiative’s Tech for  Environment Group also developed a roadmap  on climate and circular economy initiatives. HPE advocates for climate action that aligns  with climate science and the Paris Agreement.  In 2020, we called on the U.S. Congress to  consider clean energy policies within relief and  recovery packages and signed onto a CEO  statement urging world leaders to align their  COVID-19 recovery efforts with measures to  achieve a zero-carbon economy. We continue to use our public policy  platform for positive change for citizens  and the environment. The company does not make political  contributions outside the U.S. The  HPE Political Action Committee (HPE PAC),  a separate legal entity funded by voluntary  team-member donations, makes bipartisan  contributions to U.S. congressional, state,  and local candidates, and committees who  share not only HPE’s key business and public  policy priorities, but also its culture, values,  and commitment to advancing the way people  live and work. The HPE PAC has structured  criteria which evaluate contributions and  consider whether the recipient embraces our  corporate commitment to diversity, inclusion,  equity, and justice for all. We publicly disclose the candidates and  groups that receive HPE PAC contributions.  As we engage in the political process, we  ensure that our actions are ethical, legal,  transparent, and align with the HPE Standards  of Business Conduct. HPE makes corporate contributions to  U.S. state and local candidates, committees,  and ballot measures. Annually, we publicly  disclose the candidates, groups, and  Section 527 organizations that receive  corporate contributions from HPE. Our culture of integrity and transparency builds trust with our stakeholders  as we collaborate to make meaningful progress on the issues most relevant  to our business. Our best-in-class environmental, social, and governance  (ESG) reporting ensures accountability, aligning with prominent standards  and frameworks to meet the needs of our stakeholders. Our fifth annual Living Progress Report offers  an overview of our approach, our programs, and  our progress on the environmental, social, and  governance issues most significant to our business. We regularly undertake a materiality37  assessment to ensure we are addressing the  environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  issues of greatest significance to our business  and our stakeholders. HPE completed our latest third-party  materiality assessment in 2019, taking into  account the evolution of our business, changes  in the sustainability landscape, geographical  variations in issue prioritization, and the  continuing evolution of best-practice materiality  techniques informed by organizations such  as the Global Reporting Index (GRI) and  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (SASB) standards to which this report is  aligned. Since 2017, HPE has paired traditional  stakeholder interviews and desk research with  a data-driven approach that leverages artificial  intelligence software to detect emerging ESG  topics in the digital media landscape. As our assessment was undertaken in the fall of  2019, prior to the emergence of COVID-19, we  revisited our key findings in 2020 to account  for the impact of the pandemic on our business,  customers, and stakeholders more broadly.  This review engaged executive members of  the Living Progress Strategy Council and was  presented to the Nominating, Governance,  and Social Responsibility Committee of the  HPE Board of Directors in November 2020. Our  materiality refresh found a notable increase in  the significance of two key issues: employee  health and safety and supply chain resilience.  The issues in the following chart meet the  materiality threshold for this report. Issues are  rated by their importance to HPE’s business  and importance to external stakeholders.  Although these issues are the primary focus  for this report, we also provide information  about additional issues that have significance  to our transparency and accountability as a  corporate citizen, such as our environmental  footprint, public policy engagement, and  community investment. Definitions of the issues  in the chart, as well as the corresponding report  section, can be found in the Appendix. Our strategy aligns with the United Nation’s  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to  address objectives that are mutually beneficial  to society and to our business. We assess both  where our company can have the greatest  contribution and how these actions can create  new forms of customer value. Achieving the SDGs could unlock an estimated  $12 trillion in market opportunities and  our technologies play an important role in  advancing these transformational goals. We take a materiality-based approach to  prioritize action toward the SDGs with  significant risks and opportunities to our  business. This is fundamental to ensuring  our long-term financial success, building the  skilled talent to succeed in a digital-first world,  and ensuring that HPE remains competitive  in a low-carbon economy. Achieving any of these goals will require  technological innovation to be applied  both purposefully and collaboratively— making Partnership to the Goals (SDG 17)  an underlying theme across our strategy  and implementation efforts. Learn more  about how our corporate purpose guides  us to advance the way people live and work by applying our technologies to solve  complex global challenges and developing  technology-based solutions to support  underserved communities lacking access to  resources such as healthcare and education. The following chart highlights examples of how HPE’s practices or activities advance the SDGs and targets that are material to our business. A list of indicators mapped to the SDGs can be found in  our Standards Index. SDG Targets HPE material issues Activity or business practice 5.1: End gender-based discrimination. 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective  participation and equal opportunities  for leadership. 7.2: By 2030, increase substantially  the share of renewable energy in the  global energy mix. 7.3: By 2030, double the global rate   of improvement in energy efficiency. 8.5: Achieve full and productive  employment and decent work for all  women and men, including for young  people and persons with disabilities,  and equal pay for work of equal value. 8.7: Eradicate forced labor,  modern slavery, child labor,  and human trafficking. 8.8: Protect labor rights and  promote safe and secure working  environments for all workers. 9.4: Upgrade infrastructure  and retrofit industries to make  them sustainable. • Worked with four suppliers to reimburse a half-million dollars to workers who paid recruitment fees • Lowered lost workday case rate to just .02 and recordable incident rate to .05, both well below HPE Hyperconverged Infrastructure 2.0 12.6: Encourage companies, especially  large and transnational companies,  to adopt sustainable practices and  to integrate sustainability information  into their reporting cycle. 13.3: Improve education, awareness  raising, and human and institutional  capacity on climate change mitigation,  adaptation, impact reduction,   and early warning. To succeed in our purpose to advance the  way people live and work, HPE is committed  to working in partnership with a wide range  of stakeholders on our shared sustainability  objectives, helping us understand expectations  and priorities. We regularly collaborate with our  stakeholders through partnerships, industry  forums, supplier capability-building, direct  customer engagements, mentoring, surveys  and assessments, and more. Through these  engagements, we maintain our understanding  of which material ESG issues are most relevant  in the context of each stakeholder group and  ensure we reach key stakeholders through  the most relevant channels. In addition to our materiality assessment,  which seeks to understand stakeholder  priorities and garner feedback, HPE conducts  regular stakeholder research to gauge their  perceptions and ensure we meet evolving  expectations. In 2020, HPE commissioned a  reputation audit to understand the state of  HPE’s reputation relative to key competitors.  The research, which sought to assess our  progress against benchmarking conducted  in 2018, included a survey of hundreds of  business elites and IT decision makers as well  as direct interviews with financial analysts,  industry analysts, and policymakers. The study  found little to no negative perception of HPE  and increased recognition of HPE as a good  corporate citizen since the prior benchmark. communities, support customers tackling  the challenges of this pandemic, and offer  technology to help organizations adapt to this  unprecedented situation. More information on  our COVID-19 response can be found here. In addition to face-to-face engagements with  customers, HPE offers a direct channel for  customer and stakeholder inquiries through  our Sustainability and Compliance (S&C)  mailbox. In 2020, the S&C group responded to  more than 1,600 inquiries from stakeholders,  primarily comprised of customers and sales  representatives, requesting information  about HPE policies and practices related to  sustainability issues. We catalog inquiries by  subject matter and track them to ensure that  our programs, materials, and reporting address  stakeholder needs. The Living Progress  team also provides support to HPE sales  representatives via a direct internal mailbox  and sales trainings, which serve as a central  feedback loop for our customer engagement  strategy. Although the COVID-19 pandemic  curtailed face-to-face engagements,  our team seamlessly shifted to virtual  engagements, resulting in a year-over-year  increase in customer engagements. HPE actively engages with investors regarding  our approach to environmental, social, and  governance (ESG) issues management and  performance. In 2020, HPE partnered with  Morgan Stanley to host our first investor  webcast focused on our ESG strategy and performance. The webcast, which featured  HPE CEO Antonio Neri and executives  leading our company’s ESG initiatives, yielded  positive feedback from investors, who noted  that our strong ESG framework helps to drive  competitive advantage, win deals, and reduce  turnover. Neri also featured on JUST Capital’s  quarterly webcast in January 2020 and  subsequently joined JUST’s CEO on  CNBC’s Squawk Box to discuss the rise   of stakeholder capitalism. In addition, HPE Investor Relations regularly  briefs investors on ESG issues through direct  exchanges, face-to-face engagements, the  HPE Security Analysts Meeting, and the  annual investor road show. To better align  our financial and sustainability disclosures,  we further integrated information such as  our ESG governance structure and approach  to human capital management into our  HPE 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K  and HPE 2021 Proxy Statement. Additional stakeholders critical to our business  are referenced throughout this report, including  our team members, suppliers, governments,  and communities. HPE partners with industry and peer groups  to advance global sustainability agendas  and achieve objectives critical to our business  success. The following table lists the key  memberships, affiliations, and working  groups with whom HPE actively engaged  in 2020; however, this is not exhaustive of  all HPE partnerships. In addition, we invest in category-leading  startup companies through Hewlett Packard  Pathfinder, combining HPE solutions  with portfolio companies’ cutting-edge  technologies to deliver differentiated  solutions for our customers. 2020 investments  included Dragos, a global leader in industrial  cybersecurity, and IonQ, which delivers  quantum-computing solutions with the  potential to solve the world’s most complex  and data-intensive problems. AnitaB.org Ascend American Red Cross Disaster Responder Program Change Catalyst Consortium Curated Pathways to Innovation Disability Equality Index Disability:IN Executive Leadership Council Fast Forward Girl Scouts Nation’s Capital Hispanic Information Technology Executive Council Home of the Brave Human Rights Equality Index This report covers HPE’s fiscal year 2020  (November 1, 2019–October 31, 2020) and  is part of the Living Progress reporting suite,  along with our complete performance data  available in our 2020 Data Summary. Our Living Progress reporting and disclosure  to third parties keeps us accountable and builds  trust with our stakeholders. We report each  year to third-party organizations including: We also contract external assurance provider  SCS Global Services to perform an  independent review of selected key  performance indicators in the 2020 Data  Summary. • References to dollars are to U.S. dollars All the information in the report is current as  of the date of initial publication. The report has  not been updated to reflect any changes that  may have occurred after such date, including  any changes to HPE’s business or strategy. As a forward-looking document, our report  contains statements that involve inherent  assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. HPE  assumes no obligation and does not intend  to update these statements based on changes  resulting from the emergence of any of  these risks or uncertainties, or in the case  of assumptions proving incorrect. We welcome any questions or feedback relating  to our Living Progress report. Contact us here. You can remain up to date on Living Progress  through our Advancing Life and Work blog,  hpe.com/livingprogress, and by joining us in  conversation on Twitter at @HPE_LivingProg. This is not a complete list of HPE policies and  standards. Additional sustainability-related  policy documents can be found here. HPE Supplier Code of Conduct  HPE Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy  HPE Supplier SER Requirements  ETHICS, ANTI-CORRUPTION, AND PRIVACY Anti-Corruption Policy  Contingent Worker Code of Conduct  Global Business Amenities Policy  Partner Code of Conduct  HPE Partner Ready Partner Privacy and Data Protection Addendum  Political Contributions Policy  Standards of Business Conduct (SBC)  U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct  HPE Global Master Privacy Policy The table below provides definitions for the issues in the chart. The definitions are based on input from internal and external stakeholders, as well as best practice guidelines from the  Global Reporting Initiative and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. Product lifecycle management  Product lifecycle management Managing the impacts of HPE products and services through their entire lifecycle, including production of raw materials, engineering, design,  manufacturing, use, and end-of-life options. Efficiency of IT solutions  IT efficiency Providing IT services, products, and solutions and engaging with customers to solve customer business and sustainability challenges. Inclusion and diversity  Inclusion and diversity Ensuring that the HPE workforce reflects our global business and customers. Data security Data security Protecting information managed by HPE and customers from unwanted parties and unauthorized access, such as security threats   and cyberattacks. Processes managed include the collection, use, processing, storage, transfer, sharing, and end-of-life disposal of data. Employee health and safety Employee health and safety  Creating a healthy, safe, and secure working environment for all HPE team members.  Employee engagement and development Promoting rapid professional growth and matching team member skills to future business needs in the ever-evolving technology industry. Corporate governance and ethical behavior Promoting high standards of ethics and eliminating corruption, extortion, and bribery in employee, business partner, joint venture,   and customer relationships. Contributing to a more circular economy. Increasing the energy efficiency of HPE products and enabling customers to reduce their energy use. Fostering employee engagement and open communication and promoting team member well-being. Maintaining a supply chain that is diverse, inclusive, and global.  Providing IT solutions that improve access to health, finance, food, government services, education, information, and markets.  Taking account of ethical considerations in the social applications of big data and the social implications of IoT. Ensuring that the marketing and communication of products and services is honest, transparent, and fair.  Fulfilling taxation responsibilities to the economies in which HPE operates. Substances of concern   in products Corporate governance Corporate governance and ethical behavior Improving diversity of HPE’s board structure, as well as its independent oversight of the company, governance of sustainability,   and role of CEO/chairman. Privacy  Privacy Upholding the right to privacy and protecting personal data from unwanted parties, including privacy by design. This includes the   management of requests for private or personal information from government or law enforcement agencies to determine their legitimacy   and comply with local, regional, and national laws and standards. Transparency, accountability,  and reporting IT products and services   and human rights  Environment Improving energy efficiency and using renewable energy sources to reduce GHG emissions in our operations, including buildings,   employee travel, and transportation logistics. Substances of concern Designing and developing products and solutions that use alternatives to materials and substances of concern to human health   and the environment. Ethical sourcing Eliminating slavery and forced labor in the HPE supply chain. Ethical sourcing Maintaining and elevating ethical standards in the supply chain, including services and manufacturing supply chains, that maintain labor  standards in working hours and conditions, wages and benefits, and humane treatment of workers employed. Human rights Taking measures to prevent the use of HPE products and services by individuals, groups, or entities that are restricted or who may use IT   to infringe on human rights. Encouraging our suppliers to adopt energy efficiency and GHG emissions reduction practices in their operations. Managing executive compensation relative to average worker salaries.  Providing clear and comparable business and sustainability information on products, operations, and the supply chain in an accessible manner. Achieving fair and beneficial outcomes for supply chain participants, especially workers and communities. Providing clear and comparable business and sustainability information on products, operations, and the supply chain in an accessible manner. Preventing discriminatory outcomes resulting from the use of customer data and big data analytics. Water in our value chain  Environment Conserving water across the HPE value chain and improving transparency and water stewardship of suppliers.  Public policy engagement Public policy Influencing public policy development through direct engagement and multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives. Responsible sourcing of minerals Ethical sourcing This includes the responsible sourcing of raw minerals for HPE products and managing the negative social and environmental impacts   associated with sourcing and extraction of raw materials, such as rare earth elements and conflict minerals. Corporate philanthropy  Community investment Supporting local communities through employee volunteering or providing monetary contributions to qualified organizations.   Additional monetary and product contributions are donated in response to natural disasters. Environment Managing and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste responsibly across the HPE value chain. Managing risk and potential exposure of our supply chain to impacts from natural resource constraints, disruptions such as pandemics or   extreme and unpredictable weather events related to climate change, and geographic-specific considerations of supply chain risk. Responsible and ethical public policy engagement, including lobbying and political contributions. 4 GSMA Association (September 2020). Connected 5 IDC (June 2019). The Growth in Connected IoT Devices 7 IDC (May 2020). IDC Cloud Pulse 1Q20 Survey 8 Gartner Research (September 2019). Market Guide for 9 Ehsan Ahvar, Anne-Cécile Orgerie, Adrien Lebre. 10 Energy Efficiency (December 2019). Data centres in its affiliates (‘‘MSCI’’) data, and the use of the MSCI  logos, trademarks, service marks, or index names  herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement,  recommendation, or promotion of HPE by MSCI. Society: The State of Mobile Internet Connectivity  2020. https://www.gsma.com/r/wp-content/ uploads/2020/09/GSMA-State-of-Mobile-Internet- Connectivity-Report-2020.pdf is Expected to Generate 79.4ZB of Data in 2025,  According to a New IDC Forecast. #US45213219 elements; however, our suite of efficient IT solutions  enable our customers to compute at the highest  level while exhausting the least amount of resources  possible. This portfolio is based upon attributes of  efficient equipment, energy-efficient products, and  resource efficiency. Findings. Edge Computing Solutions for Industrial IoT. Estimating Energy Consumption of Cloud, Fog and  Edge Computing Infrastructures. IEEE Transactions on  Sustainable Computing, IEEE, 2019, pp.1-12. 10.1109/ TSUSC.2019.2905900. hal-02083080 future European energy systems—energy efficiency,  integration and policy. 15 95% of production suppliers, by spend. 16 Supplier data is reported as a one-year lag. Therefore, 18 Supplier data is reported as a one-year lag. Therefore, 21 Supplier data is reported as a one-year lag. Therefore, 22 HPE categorizes waste-to-energy as diverted waste. 23 The most recent industry rates available at the time 24 Costa, P. (2019, March). The Global Competition reported as a one-year lag. Therefore, the most recent  data available is from 2019. reported as a one-year lag. Therefore, the most recent  data available is from 2019. when new product generations are introduced.  Progress toward target stalled in 2020 due to test lab  closures but is expected to resume in 2021. the most recent data available is from 2019. to set their SBTs to decline year-over-year as they  transition from committing to  targets to actually  setting them. the most recent data available is from 2019. to account for our Cray acquisition in 2019. As a result,  there were changes made to historic environmental data  from FY16 to FY19. compared to our impacts from the energy-water nexus  across our value chain. For this reason, in 2020, we  shifted our water modeling to focus on our impacts from  the energy-water nexus. the most recent data available is from 2019. of this publication was 2019. for Technology Talent—IMF Finance & Development  Magazine. 28 “DRC conflict-free” as defined in the U.S. Securities price. This is the price a customer would have paid   to purchase the equipment through HPE direct   sales channel on the internet at the time the grant  was processed. on child labour and forced labour, May 2020. facilities, independent third-party specialists trained in  social and environmental auditing carry out the audits,  using the RBA Validated Audit Process. and Exchange Commission’s conflict minerals rule  are products that do not contain conflict minerals  that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed  groups in the DRC or an adjoining country. Conflict  minerals from recycled or scrap sources are considered  DRC conflict free. based on the number (as of the 2020 Cut-Off Date of  March 17, 2021) of all supplier-reported 3TG facilities  that were either RMAP-conformant or active, and/or  that we reasonably believe exclusively source conflict  minerals from recycled or scrap sources or from outside  of the Covered Countries. with applicable portions of the OECD Due Diligence  Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals  from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas  (Third Edition, OECD 2016). Cost of Cybercrime. The Hidden Cost of Cybercrime. Cyberwarfare in the C-Suite. https://www.infusionpoints.com/blogs/how-hpe- leading-supply-chain-security DRIVING A CIRCULAR AND  LOW-CARBON ECONOMY effectively opposed to “cloud first,” which deploys the  technology by any means possible. definition used in the context of filings with the SEC.  Issues deemed material for the purposes of our  ESG strategies and disclosures may not be considered  material for SEC reporting purposes. Search for Hewlett Packard for historical Hewlett Packard Company submissions,  and Hewlett Packard Enterprise for post-separation HPE submissions. We welcome feedback on any aspect of our Living Progress reporting and performance.  Contact us here. © Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for Hewlett Packard Enterprise products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements  accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. Hewlett Packard Enterprise shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.  AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ENERGY STAR is a registered mark owned by the U.S. government. Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and/or other countries. McAfee is a trademark or registered trademark of  McAfee LLC in the United States and other countries. All third-party marks are property of their respective owners.