Building the roadmap  to the future. When we started 2020, no one predicted that  entire sectors of the global economy would come  to a sudden halt. That international travel would  become nearly impossible. That our workplaces  would be transformed into a hybrid of socially  distanced on-site activities and a remote   work reality. We witnessed amazing changes to our  environment, from the remarkable boost in air  quality in Los Angeles, to having a clear view  of the Himalayas in India previously hidden by  pollution for the past 30 years.  Business and Governance Products and Customers Responsible Supply Chain Our Workplace Sustainable Operations Our Communities Appendix It was the year we watched the world unite with  acts of compassion through homemade masks  for healthcare workers, donations to food banks,  and supplies to front line workers with meals  and personal protective equipment (PPE). And  amidst all of this, we also stood in solidarity  against social injustice. The global pandemic illuminated how we could  transform our planet and intensify the best in  humanity when we all work towards a common  goal. We caught a glimpse of how a better world  is possible.  Products and Customers Appendix At Lam, our employees are known for their  dedication to caring for one another and our  customers, and 2020 confirmed yet again that  their resiliency does not waiver during a crisis. Because of the incredible efforts of Lam’s  workforce, we maintained our operations, and  those of our customers consistently through the  most challenging of circumstances. We launched  new products, introduced industry-disrupting  solutions, achieved financial milestones,  expanded our workforce, and answered the call  from our communities in need.  More than ever, we have demonstrated that  when the bar is raised, Lam delivers. And in that  spirit, our goal is to operate 100% on renewable  energy by 2030 and become carbon net zero  by 2050. Developing our critical path to achieve  these important milestones by year end is a top  priority for us. While the challenges of our time are daunting,  Lam has spent 40 years diligently solving the  unsolvable, proving it can be done. That is where  you will find Lam, working to build a better world,  and I could not be prouder. As a global leader in wafer fabrication equipment  manufacturing and services for the semiconductor  industry, we drive semiconductor breakthroughs  that define the next generation.   BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE This year, the COVID-19 pandemic  created global disruptions across all  aspects of everyday life. Like the rest  of the world, we faced ever-changing  circumstances and challenges. And we  met them with resiliency, innovation,  compassion, and an unwavering  commitment to our environmental,   social, and governance (ESG) priorities.  We launched new products and industry- disrupting solutions, expanded and  safeguarded our workforce, and delivered  aid to our communities in need. From  our management team and Board of  Directors (Board) to our employees, our  Core Values guided us all in the face of  unexpected adversity. Our culture is built on our Core Values. These values guide our decisions in every aspect of our business –  determining what we do and how we do it. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) provide a blueprint for a more sustainable future  for all. We recognize the responsibility that we, other businesses, governments, and non-profit organizations  have in turning this blueprint into reality. As part of our commitment to sustainable, inclusive, and global  progress, we are focused on the five SDGs that are most relevant to our business activities. These SDGs,  which help to guide our short-term and long-term ESG strategies and plans, are: We have a responsibility to contribute to a better world. And when we think beyond our ourselves, we get  better results, advance our industry, and empower progress. To that end, we strive to incorporate ESG into  everything we do – from our operations and workplace practices, to how we source our materials and design  our products. Our ESG strategy is composed of six key pillars derived from our materiality assessment. This  framework focuses our attention on our most important topics and pressing challenges in the world while  helping us deliver value to our stakeholders. Our management approach emphasizes financial performance while integrating ESG principles into day-to- day operations. From goal setting and regular progress assessments on material ESG topics, to investments  in environmental and social responsibility programs across our business, we actively involve our leadership  in the efforts we put forward. Doing so ensures that we adopt ESG best practices, like robust stakeholder  engagement, regular materiality assessment, and transparency. To ensure the salience of our ESG strategy, we conduct a materiality assessment every three to five years, or  when notable shifts happen in our business. The purpose of this assessment is to identify those topics that  reflect the environmental, social, and economic impacts of our business that we regard as most significant.  In this report, we refer to these as “material” topics. Our most recent assessment identified 13 material topics  across six strategic pillars. This framework provides the basis for all our ESG strategies and the structure for this report. Each category   has its own chapter where we identify the relevant SDG goals and the progress we’ve made. We approach engagement with our key stakeholders in a spirit of collaboration and trust and value the  perspectives and insight they provide. We regularly engage through formal and informal channels and seek  feedback on ESG issues to advise our ESG strategy and goals. Lam actively partners with non-profit  organizations and community leaders  to create positive impact in places  where we operate. Lam collaborates with customers  to identify their emerging  business needs. These needs  guide Lam’s product and service  delivery objectives, research  and development efforts,  and  manufacturing plans. Lam solicits employee feedback  through in-person and online  employee forums, engagement  sessions, all-employee meetings,  pulse surveys, conversations with  managers, and our HR Support and  Employee Relations programs. Lam is a member of multiple industry  organizations, where we often  collaborate with our peers on topics  of mutual importance. We are active  participants in several groups that  discuss and develop best practices  to support the sustainable growth of  our industry. Lam periodically interacts with   policy makers and community leaders  to discuss emerging trends   in legislative, regulatory, and  community matters. Lam proactively seeks opportunities  to engage with stockholders  individually to understand  their views on ESG topics. We  meet with investors to gather  input and exchange ideas via  investor conferences, meetings,  correspondence, and voting  on proposals presented at our  stockholder meetings. Lam collaborates with suppliers  to meet customer needs and  create an ethical supply chain by  developing social and environmental  requirements and processes. ESG leadership The highest levels of our leadership are involved in  our governance approach. While our Board is actively  engaged in ESG oversight, the Nominating and  Governance Committee has the primary responsibility  for our ESG priorities. For workforce-related issues, the  Compensation and Human Resources Committee holds  responsibility. The Audit Committee is responsible for  oversight on ethics and compliance and information  security. Management provides regular updates to  the Board and these committees and engages them  to discuss ESG strategy, gain alignment on goals, and  report on progress. We formed a new Executive Steering Committee in 2020 to guide  our ESG strategy, approve and support initiatives, and help keep us  accountable. The CEO and members of the CEO staff participate  on this committee which oversees the work driven by our cross- functional ESG Leadership Team. This includes proposing goals,  developing and executing strategy, and embedding ESG into our  operations management system. In addition, we have topic-specific  working groups to tackle key issues. We’re proud of the progress  we’ve made thus far and are committed to further strengthening and  accelerating our ESG program and initiatives. ESG goals Accountability drives progress. That’s why we  developed 17 goals across 5 of our 6 pillars. We aim  to achieve the majority of these goals by 2025, with  some exceptions. 1.  Continue to expand our disclosure and  alignment with industry-recognized  frameworks and standards Build on our high-performance culture with   best-in-class employee engagement at the   top 10% global benchmark as measured by   our employee survey Increase number of women and underrepresented  employees across the company 4. Maintain a total recordable incident rate (TRIR)  below 0.4 5.  Achieve more than 90% compliance rate with our  social and environmental expectations across our   top tier suppliers Engage with at least 50% of our top tier suppliers on  environmental sustainability opportunities 7.  Increase engagement with all suppliers on social and  environmental topics through assessment, training,  and capacity building Achieve 100% renewable energy globally by 2030 Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions 25% from a 2019 baseline Achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2050 Achieve 12 million kWh in total energy savings  from a 2019 baseline Achieve zero waste to landfill for hazardous waste Achieve 17 million gallons of water savings (15%)  in water-stressed regions from a 2019 baseline Determine key targets for larger scale  impact aligned to a new strategic focus  15. Implement measurement of outcomes for  key program and large-scale grants Increase community program unique  employee participation rate from   10% to 30% Increase volunteer hours by 33% As we gain greater knowledge of our impact, so should the world. We’re committed to increasing  transparency on ESG-related risks and performance over time and reporting on new information each  year. We are increasing our alignment with the frameworks provided by the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and  the Global Reporting Index (GRI), which we’ve utilized to shape both our 2025 goal setting and risk  assessment. A full inventory of our disclosures is available in the appendix. In 2020, we engaged with a consulting firm to conduct an analysis of our TCFD practices. Results  indicated strong alignment with the framework in our metrics, targets, and governance, and highlighted  potential opportunities for improvement. In 2021, we intend to conduct a scenario analysis to  further evaluate top risks and opportunities and integrate the relevant items into our enterprise risk  management system. We took a holistic approach in response to the pandemic,  safeguarding our employees and caring for our  communities while ensuring continuity for our customers. LAM RESEARCH Despite the disruption of COVID-19, we delivered a solid financial performance in FY 2020. We  generated over $10 billion in revenue, representing a five-year compound annual growth rate of  nearly 14% and net income per diluted share of $15.10. This was nearly a 10% increase over fiscal  year 2019. Lam’s performance in 2020 demonstrates the resiliency of our business, driven by  best-in-class products and services, high quality operational execution, and exceptional talent  throughout our employee base. These financials are presented in conformity with U.S. Generally  Accepted Accounting Principles. For more information about our financial performance, please visit our investor page. Revenue  $11,076,998   $9,653,559   $10,044,736  4.1% Gross margin  $5,165,032   $4,358,459   $4,608,693  5.7% Total operating  expenses  $1,951,733   $1,893,727   $1,934,891  2.2% Research and  development (R&D)  $1,189,514   $1,191,320   $1,252,412  5.1% R&D as a percent of  operating expenses 60.9% 62.9% 64.7% 2.9% Net Income  $2,380,681   $2,191,430   $2,251,753  2.8% Net income per  diluted share  $13.17   $13.70   $15.10  10.2% 46.6% 45.1% 45.9% 1.8% Business and Governance Products and Customers Responsible Supply Chain Our Workplace Sustainable Operations Our Communities Appendix Products and Customers Appendix Joint venture company United States  58.1% Global employee population  12,228 Corporate headquarters Fremont, CA Manufacturing sites Global employee distribution Japan  3.7% China  5.8% Taiwan  6.6% Europe  7.1% South Korea  8.5% Southeast Asia and India  10.2% Fremont, CA Livermore, CA Tualatin, OR Business and Governance Products and Customers Responsible Supply Chain Our Workplace Sustainable Operations Our Communities Appendix In alignment with our Core Values, and in accordance with applicable laws and  regulations in locations where we operate, we are proud to conduct business with  the highest integrity. Our ethics and compliance policies apply to all employees,  temporary workers, contractors, and consultants around the world. Our Ethics and Compliance team conducts its activities subject to Board  oversight. The program is managed by our chief compliance officer who reports  to the chief legal officer with dotted line reporting to the Audit Committee Chair  of the Board. Our program encompasses five major areas: risk management,  policies and procedures, communications, training, and the Ethics Helpline.  Details on these topics can be found in the Global Reporting Index (GRI) index. “At Lam, we are  building a world-class  Ethics and Compliance  program rooted in our  Core Values. Honesty  and Integrity, and  Ownership and  Accountability are  the foundation of our  Global Standards of  Business Conduct and  how we do business.” We consistently assess internal and external risks — refining our programs and adjusting our  annual plan as needed to further support responsible governance and ethics within our business.  And because our global presence includes regions with differing governmental structures, wide- ranging regulatory environments, and bribery and corruption challenges, enhancing our risk  management program is a high priority. In 2020, we strengthened our Global Supplier Code of Conduct to expand existing coverage  of human rights, conflicts of interest, labor laws, health and safety, environment, and reporting  concerns. In addition, we enhanced our Third-Party Compliance Questionnaire to further address  and mitigate third-party risk to the company. We take a risk-based approach to third-party due  diligence and conduct due diligence exercises on higher risk suppliers and customers. We expect  all of our third parties to operate in a legal, ethical, and compliant manner and to abide by all  applicable laws, rules, and regulations including those related to anti-bribery and corruption. Our success has stemmed from a variety of  factors, but the top two are customer trust and  our employees’ dedication to a values-driven  culture. To reinforce this culture and to help our  employees navigate a variety of circumstances,  we created our Global Standards of Business  Conduct (GSBC) policy. This is a written  standard of appropriate business conduct,  addressing various issues including:  protecting confidential information, giving  and receiving gifts or entertainment, avoiding  bribery and corruption, engaging in accurate  accounting practices, appropriately retaining  records, properly using mobile devices and  other company assets, avoiding conflicts  of interest, promoting fair competition,  working outside of Lam, prohibiting insider  trading, and acceptable practices for public  communications, donations, and political  activities. It also addresses workplace conduct  issues such as harassment, discrimination, and  improper relationships. Effective compliance policies ensure  systematic, consistent methods and protocols  across our global business units and play a  fundamental role in driving compliance and  best practices. To this end, we have additional  policies and procedures to provide further  guidance on specific ethics and compliance  areas, including: As the world around us evolves, so does our  Ethics and Compliance program. For example,  we published a Global Gifts, Meals, Travel  and Entertainment Policy and Procedure in  2020 and will release an Anti-Bribery and  Corruption Policy in early 2021. This robust  practice demonstrates our zero-tolerance  stance towards bribery and corruption and  our commitment to comply with global anti- corruption laws and regulations. To ensure widespread understanding of the topics covered by the  GSBC, we require that all our employees take an annual online  training course that reinforces their understanding of selected  topics covered by the GSBC. We accomplished a 98% completion  rate for this training in 2020. Our risk-based approach determines  the topics that will be covered each year. In 2020, Ethics &  Compliance developed and delivered additional focused training  sessions for leadership teams and higher-risk employees. We support our business strategy through regular, constructive  engagement with government officials and policymakers and  through participation in the political process. Leading these  efforts is our Global Government Affairs (GGA) group, formalized  and strengthened by the addition of our vice president of Global  Government Affairs in 2020. Our lobbying and political activities  are governed by our Global Standards of Business Conduct and  Political Activity and Government Affairs Procedures. We work  to engage the policy process in the areas of taxes, trade, export  control policy, research and development, business operations,  and other areas key to our business strategy. We remain active  in various business and trade associations that align with our  company imperatives, such as the National Association of  Manufacturers, SEMI, and the Semiconductor Industry   Association. We continually plan for the unexpected, preparing ways to mitigate the impact of any  unexpected business interruption on our customers, employees, and suppliers. Rather  than let the challenges posed by 2020 hold us back, we are leveraging the knowledge  gained and applying it throughout our entire business, creating a strategic roadmap for  increased business resilience. Our Business Resilience Team works with leaders across  the enterprise to develop and implement best practices in risk assessment, policies,  infrastructure, and protocols. Business continuity plans are in place to minimize disruption  for our customers, keep our employees safe, and meet future challenges. Our approach to global taxation for all types of taxes is to consistently comply with  legal, regulatory, and internal control requirements as well as support our business  and commercial strategy. We are committed to adhere to all applicable global tax  laws, filings, and reporting disclosures. We account for tax risks in accordance with  the applicable accounting standards and have internal controls in place over our tax  reporting processes. Our transfer pricing policies are aligned with the guidelines of  the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), as well as with  all of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We apply the arm’s length principle when  conducting intercompany transactions. We have an established network of internal and  external tax and finance professionals who are knowledgeable in various direct and  indirect taxes and who monitor ongoing tax law and business changes, so that we may  adapt processes and deliverables accordingly. This network, along with our framework  regarding internal policies and controls, seeks to ensure the complete and accurate  communication of tax positions and risks, through established governance and reporting  processes to our Management and Board of Directors. Information security plays a significant role in safeguarding  our valuable intellectual property (IP) along with the data of  our customers, employees, and suppliers. Retaining trust and  combating new emerging threats is critical, which is why our  cybersecurity strategy actively evolves in real time. For example,  as our remote workforce significantly expanded in 2020, we  quickly adjusted our controls to support data protection.  We have multiple security measures in place for the critical  information systems that we operate and for those hosted by  third parties. Our global information security program is led by  our chief information security officer (CISO), who reports on a  regular basis to the Audit Committee and the full Board. In 2020,  we strengthened our information security program by creating a  new framework with three pillars: “Our Information Security program  is centered around protecting our  most important information, that  of our customers.” We hold International Standards Organization  (ISO) 27001 certifications for information  security for nine sites and have implemented  various global ISO 27001 compliant  information security policies and procedures,  demonstrating our management system and  programs align with global best practices.  In addition, we selectively screen and audit  suppliers for information security controls that  protect our information as well as that of   our suppliers.   To ensure that our employees understand their  roles in preserving information security, we  conduct annual training courses on various  cybersecurity topics, including cybersecurity  awareness, phishing defense, and social  engineering defense. A random user population  is tested periodically to determine which users  are vulnerable to real attacks and reinforce  security awareness training. In 2020, we did not  experience any cyber incidents that resulted in  a material adverse impact. We continue to challenge assumptions and  defy conventions as the pace of technological  advancement presses on. Our innovations drive  breakthroughs that help our customers achieve  what was once thought impossible.   PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS In 2020, the demand for semiconductors  rapidly increased as more people relied  on technology for remote work, learning,  entertainment, and medical services.  And when our customers looked to us  for help, we delivered — meeting our  customers’ requirements and launching  cutting-edge products and technologies,  all while keeping our employees safe and  operating sustainably. We continued to  push further and work smarter, with a  singular focus that business success is  inclusive of its impact on society and the  planet. For us, that means environmental  and social impacts inform our product  design and R&D efforts. We take pride  in our sustainable product features  and services that extend the life of our  products, increasing value for customers  and lowering environmental impact. Launched three new products and  technologies – Dry Resist, Sense.iTM,   and Striker FE® Our global customer base includes leading semiconductor  memory, logic, and specialty technology chipmakers. Together,  we prove that devices with greater performance can be achieved.  Making semiconductors requires highly sophisticated process  technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials   with precise control. Our equipment delivers cost-effective,   high-productivity capabilities that enable customer success. To address critical needs for next-generation  device scaling, we, in collaboration with ASML and  imec, introduced a groundbreaking dry photoresist  technology that offers significant improvement in  extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography resolution,  productivity, and yield. This technology uses 5 to 10  times less chemistry and 2 times less energy to create  the same result, delivering significant cost savings and  a more sustainable solution for our customers. The Dry Resist project is a collaborative effort across  the deposition, etch, office of the chief technology  officer (OCTO), and field organizations. The team is  creating disruptive processes and exciting results,  often coordinating experiments across continents to  enable next-generation devices. “ We had to create an environment of mutual trust  and open communication to overcome barriers to  collaboration. Effective communication, teamwork,  and creativity were important given the scope of  the challenges in bringing a paradigm shift to an  important step in semiconductor fabrication.” As the semiconductor industry continues to drive   device performance and cost scaling, there is an   ever-growing need for innovation in device process   capability and extendibility. Our groundbreaking   Sense.iTM product family delivers the high-performance  etching technology required to support logic and  memory device roadmaps well into the coming decade  and beyond. New innovations in radio frequency (RF)  power and controls technology not only improve  performance but also increase efficiency and enable  customers to reduce the RF power used by 10-20% for  each wafer etched. With new design and advanced  manufacturing approaches, we eliminated 15,000  pounds of aluminum raw material per Sense.i™ tool.  This reduces the resources consumed in the initial  production of the unnecessary aluminum plate and  in the recycling stream of 1.5 million pounds per year.  In addition, the vertical design structure of the tool  results in less space per tool within a fab and overall,  the potential for a smaller factory footprint generating  significant value for our customers. Sense.i™ Striker® FE, a first-of-its-kind atomic layer deposition  technology, addresses the challenge of filling  increasingly deep and narrow structures with high- quality materials. This innovation is the result of the  team finding the right combination of chemistry,  source technology, and process conditions. As an essential business within the technology  industry, we enable the fourth industrial  revolution — Industry 4.0. Therefore, it is vital  that we continuously innovate and connect  technologies – artificial intelligence, smart  manufacturing, big data, and others – to power  more productive, responsive, and connected  devices and solutions. Consistently developing timely new products  and solutions, in addition to enhancing  existing ones, is what helps us achieve  our competitive edge. Each year, we make  significant investments in our R&D programs,  and maintain close, strategic collaborations  with our customers. We also invest in a variety  of internal and external programs designed  to inspire new ideas and ways of working,  foster technological advances, and provide  differentiated solutions to grand challenges  which include atomic scale precision, surface  integrity, affordability, sustainability, equipment  intelligence, and speed to solution. Industry 4.0 Industry 4.0 (i4.0) refers to the collection of  technologies that enable human-to-machine  and machine-to-machine communication —  changing the face of manufacturing. In 2020,  we enhanced our i4.0 Steering Committee and  developed our vision, objectives, and guiding  principles for the successful implementation  of i4.0. The committee is led by our CTO and  includes leaders across our business. The team  is focused on strategic initiatives involving  the connectivity of data, optimized workflows  across the entire supply chain, human-machine  interfaces, and intelligent systems that will  create more time for people to focus on  innovation. Tech Vision is our approach to technology  innovation, providing a shared purpose across  our global technical community around areas  of strategic relevance, customer device  inflections, grand challenges, and critical  enabling technologies. It also serves as the  framework for our innovation programs and  events that encourage our employees to  connect, learn, innovate, and be inspired.   Two key components contribute to this  approach. Our Discover Together programs  offer a series of educational opportunities and  events to embolden our technical community  to share knowledge, collaborate, and spark  new ideas. Accelerate Innovation is a series of  internal and open innovation programs that  leverage external partnerships — enabling  better solutions and faster cycles of learning. Our technical seminar series acts as a regular opportunity for our engineering   community to share work with peers. We create exciting catalysts for new ideas   by inviting distinguished faculty to present on their latest research and findings,   in addition to hosting innovation speakers on a quarterly basis. In 2020, we hosted   39 events and increased participation by 10% over 2019. We hold a regular, company-wide book series that aims to cultivate our employees’   creative and innovative minds. Collectively, our employees read 1,000 books including   2 children’s titles to share with their families, with group discussions held in India and  North America. In 2020, we selected several books to support conversations about  inclusion and diversity, which we believe are key components of innovation. Our Tech Scouting open innovation program identifies and co-develops technologies   with third parties to drive innovation and growth, and enable our product groups to   deliver the highest quality, highest performance products to our customers. Universities are incubators for the semiconductor industry and an important source of both  emerging technologies and future employees — that’s why we collaborate with universities   and research consortia around the globe. We engage with a wide variety of global institutions   to fill research gaps, gain access to specialized facilities, and collaborate with top experts. We  believe these engagements help increase our speed to solution for our customers and realize our  Tech Vision. Our ongoing relationships with professors and students fuels our diverse technology  and talent pipelines. Our University Committee, comprised of cross-functional team members across our business,  provides oversight and continuity across our collaborations. In addition, the Global University  Council engages regional leadership to foster our global engagement activities. In addition to research collaborations, our university engagements include capstone project  sponsorships, scholarships, fellowships, and thesis awards, as well as scholarly competitions,  events, research consortia, and lab affiliations. In 2020, we continued our academic   collaborations through virtual implementation of projects and events with more than   61 universities in 17 countries. Every year since 2014, we’ve held an annual University Collaboration Showcase. Held virtually in  2020, this event gives our global technical employees the opportunity to learn from our academic  research collaborations and be inspired towards their own work. One of the ways we collaborate with professors and universities  around the world is through Unlock Ideas, a university gift  program that supports feasibility testing of innovative concepts.  Funded jointly by the Lam Research Foundation and the office  of the chief technology officer (OCTO), each winning proposal  earns a $25,000 USD donation for the corresponding academic  partner. In 2020, 25 awards were distributed for a broad range of  technologies. As a result, funded research will be conducted at   19 universities in 7 different countries . “ Working on an Unlock Ideas project  is helping me achieve speed to  solution, and it has reinvigorated  my passion for innovation.” Though most of our academic collaborations focus on solving advanced technical challenges  that require deep subject matter expertise, university capstone projects differ. A team of students  solve a challenge across broader disciplines such as engineering, manufacturing, business, and  information systems — which, in turn, allows us to more broadly leverage university partners  across the company. Projects give students the opportunity to apply academic learning to real-life  challenges while providing additional resources for us and our talent pipeline. “ Capstone projects provide us with extra  bandwidth and allow us to bring technological  learning from professors and the program to  Lam. We also appreciate the unbiased view  students provide.” Pritha Hait, Product Manager, Conductor  Etch, Fremont, CA is a graduate of  the University of California, Berkeley,  Department of Chemical and  Biomolecular  Engineering’s Product Development  Program. Pritha wants to build a relationship  between the program and Lam saying, Maintaining a rapid pace of innovation in  our industry is key for delivering value to our  customers. We do this by listening closely and  collaborating with our customers to deliver the  product and service offerings that meet their  needs, while also anticipating what is next in  a swiftly evolving technological environment.  We continue to invest in R&D to extend the life  and capability of our products and solutions,  creating opportunities for materials and   energy savings. We strive to deliver the most advanced  solutions while being mindful of the  environment. We embrace our role in identifying  opportunities that enable our customers to  curb energy use, GHG emissions and chemical  consumption within their operations. Our  approach to power usage reduction is twofold:  productivity improvements (reducing the  amount of energy consumed in making each  wafer) and pure energy savings (building our  equipment with more energy-efficient heaters,  radio frequency power sources, and other  components).   Since 2015, we have achieved a cumulative  reduction in energy use of approximately 35%  in multiple deposition product lines and a 25%  reduction for our EOS® wet clean product lines.  Our deposition products have environmental  features offering up to 9% energy reduction  by adding Eco pump and scrubber modes,  optimizing exhaust flows, and adding more  efficient chiller options. And we are also proud  that our clean products have the highest  chemical reclaim efficiencies in the industry,  which reduces chemical consumption   and waste. Our CSBG organization provides products and services that maximize installed equipment performance, improve  predictability, and drive operational efficiency. By the end of 2020, we had an installed base of approximately 66,000  chambers with a dedicated service team to maintain those tools for maximum productivity. We offer a broad range  of services and products through our CSBG business that deliver value throughout the life cycle of our equipment,  including customer service, spares, upgrades, and refurbishment, of our products. Our Advanced Services go beyond  the traditional break/fix type of equipment support services by combining tool data, software, and expertise to help  optimize tools beyond the process results they deliver. These support services are designed for our customers to  achieve greater value from their capital investment and maximum productivity from their purchase. Throughout the product lifecycle we are working to ensure customers maximize the value of their capital assets. Supporting our customers to extend the life of  their existing equipment is an important aspect  of our CSBG strategy. Many of the technical  advances we introduce in our newest products  are available as upgrades, providing customers  with a cost-effective strategy for extending the  performance and capabilities of their existing  installed base. Additionally, CSBG provides  refurbished previous-generation equipment  for applications that do not require the most  advanced wafer processing capability, which  results in avoiding the environmental impacts  of manufacturing a new tool. Our spares offerings enable the re-use of high- value spare parts such as electrostatic chucks,  RF hardware, and showerheads through a  variety of re-cleaning, repair, refurbishment,  and re-coating services. Part lifetime extension,  enabled by re-cleaning services, translates  to approximately $400 million of reduction in  materials consumption per year. Part re-use  enabled by repair and refurbishment services  translates to approximately $150 million of  reduction in materials consumption per year. Training our customers to use our products  is a critical business exercise. With travel  limited during the pandemic, our CSBG  organization quickly adapted to enabling our  workforce to continue providing high-quality  training. We enhanced our field training  delivery capabilities to provide online training  for all of our key products in addition to  accelerating development and expanding  many of the virtual reality courses offered by  the company. Due to the success of online  training demonstrated by cost savings to our  customers as well as a positive environmental  contribution, we will continue to offer   remote training. Customer demand for increasingly faster cycles  of learning and lower cost of development  and production are accelerating the adoption  of i4.0 in semiconductor manufacturing. We  proudly lead the industry with our Equipment  Intelligence™ solutions, which use machine  learning, artificial intelligence, and big data  combined with our equipment and process  expertise to deliver improved productivity,  efficiency, and performance for our customers. Our holistic approach to enhancing the quality of products, services, and  operations differentiates us with our customers. Our commitment to quality  and continuous improvement is shown through our certification for ISO 9001,  an international standard that provides a framework for an effective quality  management system. As we work to accelerate knowledge sharing and establish scalable business  processes that support quality improvement, we must also ensure that quality  is a value embraced with pride by our employees — and that it is evident to  our customers. Our Quality Leadership Team (QLT) is a cross-functional senior  management team that drives us to deliver company-wide quality performance  and awareness. The team’s role is to understand our customers’ perspectives and  ensure that safety and quality are designed into every product. The QLT includes  members from our product groups as well as representation from departments  such as Engineering, Global Quality, Global Operations, Manufacturing, Supplier  Quality, Sales Operations, and Customer Service. An inclusive work environment demands that talent feel  welcome and valued, each employee’s potential be seen,  their voice heard, and their strengths leveraged. OUR WORKPLACE In response to the ongoing pandemic  challenges, we focused on the safety  and holistic wellness of our employees  while developing new methods of  employee engagement, recognition, and  professional development. Because we  believe a diverse, inclusive, and engaged  workforce will drive a sustainable future,  we empower everyone to bring their  whole self to work and share values and  operating principles that enable us to act  as one company. As we endeavor to be a great place to work across our global footprint, we invest in a multi- faceted strategy that is rooted in building an inclusive and diverse workplace. Our efforts are led  by the senior vice president of Human Resources under the oversight of the Board, ensuring the  highest level of attention is devoted to achieving our goals. To support our employees, we tailor our  programs to meet the unique cultural needs and priorities within different regions around the world  while promoting a unified company culture and set of Core Values. In 2020, we developed goals to measure our progress in inclusion and diversity (I&D), employee  engagement, and safety. Progress on these goals is reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. Workplace goals  We aim to make yearly incremental strides towards achieving these goals by 2025.   •  Build on our high performance culture with best in class employee engagement at the top 10%  global benchmark as measured by our employee survey •  Increase the number of women and underrepresented employees across the company •  Maintain a total recordable incident rate below 0.4 Our diverse and talented workforce offers  invaluable perspectives that fuel our innovation.  We embrace I&D and proactively create  opportunities to attract, retain, develop, and  reward our employees. The events of 2020  underscored the importance of these efforts  more than ever — thus, we elevated I&D to  one of our six areas of strategic focus for the  company, resulting in a comprehensive review  of our policies, employee benefits, and programs  through an I&D lens. This elevated focus allows  us to accelerate our progress on a variety of  initiatives over the next several years. The three core pillars of our strategy include  fostering inclusion, increasing diversity, and  sharing our progress. We expanded this  approach by creating specific goals for I&D   and developing an organization-wide strategy   to achieve them. We reinforced this strategy   with leadership by hiring our first executive  leader of I&D, who is responsible for driving our  strategy, building partnerships, and aligning   with best practices. To achieve their full potential, we believe it is important for every person to feel valued, included,  and empowered. We stand for this by continuing to foster a positive and productive work  environment and recognize inclusion as a key driver. Our culture of inclusion encompasses all  aspects of the employee experience, and we are intentional with this mindset in recruiting, training,  leadership, decision-making, engagement, and company policies. “ We are building a workplace  where people can perform at  their best by strengthening  I&D awareness, connecting to  diverse communities within our  organization, integrating I&D  processes, and planning for  our future success. Diversity  and inclusion is a never-ending  journey, and we remain steadfast  in fostering a stronger, more  inclusive culture at Lam.” A number of policies and practices are in place  to promote a holistic view of gender equality in  our workplace, which includes a commitment  to women’s representation in leadership  positions, remote work options, support for  flexible work-life balance, recruiting efforts  to bring more women into our workforce,  employee affinity groups promoting women’s  issues within the company, and women’s  leadership development programs. We regularly  measure the progress of our efforts to recruit,  hire, and retain female employees as well as  conduct an annual pay equity assessment. Embedding I&D throughout the organization  is critical to our progress, and one way we  achieve this is by providing educational  resources to our employees. Our internal I&D  website provides information to recognize and  mitigate microinequities , cross-cultural training,  and mentoring opportunities. I&D training is  required annually for all employees globally. In  2020, 98% of all employees participated in our  web-based microinequities training. “ Inclusion and diversity training helped  me better reflect on the impact that small,  unintended, and unconscious behaviors may  have on others. I now make a more conscious  and concerted effort to actively solicit inputs  from all individuals involved on a given  matter while trying to identify the method of  engagement that is most comfortable for each  individual. I have no doubt that this simple  act has led to insights that would have been  otherwise overlooked or missed.” To support our managers’ skills in leading  with inclusion, our Grow, Lead, and Edge  management development programs focus on  building an inclusive culture. Additionally, we  kept these learnings top of mind by introducing  Inclusion Every Day, an ongoing program  delivered through our new leadership app  which features “inclusion nudges” — practical  reminders to be inclusive in daily actions,  leadership, and decision-making. Our variety of employee resource groups (ERGs) connect employees, provide learning and  development opportunities, support recruitment, and engage in our local communities. Activities  offered across the company include mentorship programs, coaching, career development  workshops, and community events. These groups were formed to foster inclusion and  understanding while giving employees the chance to connect on shared experiences. As   of 2020, ERG membership stands at over 1,100 and continues to grow. The company scored 100% on the Human Rights  Campaign Foundation’s 2020 Corporate Equality  Index (CEI), a premier benchmarking survey  and report measuring corporate policies and  practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality. Community of  Latinos and African  Americans for  Student Success  (C.L.A.S.S.) Read about our support for social justice in our  communities on page 72. As a response to the senseless and horrific  acts of racism that took the lives of George  Floyd and many more, we supported our  employees through several actions. •  Access to counseling professionals  through our Employee Assistance Program  (EAP) for employees and their dependents   •  A guide, “Coping after Trauma,” that  provides resources and support for  recovery. We recognize the importance of diversity and  believe it leads to better decision-making and  greater innovation. This year, we expanded  our disclosure of diversity to include the  intersectionality of ethnicity and gender  along with data on the gender makeup of our  technical staff and new hires. A key component of our I&D strategy is to  encourage our recruitment team and hiring  managers to seek a diverse slate of candidates.  In 2020, we expanded our recruitment efforts  to include Historically Black Colleges and  Universities in the U.S., Howard University,  and North Carolina A&T. We also increased  engagement with external organizations,  including the addition of new relationships to  source diverse talent. of all U.S. new hires at the  executive level in 2020  were female. Our recruitment efforts at the new college  graduate and intern level are also moving us  towards a more diverse future. In India, we  partnered with three women-only engineering  colleges and participated in an exclusive pool  event with nine engineering colleges to identify  internship candidates. These expanded efforts  resulted in 32% of Lam India’s new college  graduate and 54% of internship offers going   to women. We are actively recruiting women across  all levels, particularly at the executive level  (directors and above). Our progress is   in the numbers: Global and U.S. Gender Global and U.S. Gender Global and U.S. Gender Global and U.S. Gender Gender Global 81.4% Male Global U.S. Minimum rounding has been applied to this data. 21.3% Female 18.6% Female 10.4% Female 20.1% Female 15.4% Female 16.1% Female 13.9% Female 16.6% Female 75.8% Male 24.2% Female 67.0% Male 33.0% Female 78.7% Male 89.6% Male 86.1% Male 83.4% Male 79.9% Male 84.6% Male 83.9% Male LAM RESEARCH 50.5% 35.09% 49.36% 2.92% Minimum rounding has been applied to this data. 0.3% 0.5% 2.1% 2.2% 0.04% 12.59% U.S. ethnicity 30.9% 6.9% Business and Governance Products and Customers Responsible Supply Chain Our Workplace Sustainable Operations Our Communities Appendix 41.4% Male U.S. gender and ethnicity Veteran status 1.3% Female 5.6% Male 0.7% Female 2.3% Male 1.5% Female 1.7% Male 9.1% Female 0.4% Female 8.3% Female 5.1% Male 22.6% Male Veteran 8% Non-U.S. Veteran 92%  Hispanic or Latino Black or African American Asian Our support for I&D across the technology and  engineering industries includes collaborations  and sponsorship of conferences and  symposiums. We participated in the annual Women In Tech  Symposium and two leadership roundtables  at the University of California’s Expanding  Diversity and Gender Equity (EDGE) in  Tech Initiative. The initiative addresses  disproportionate participation in engineering  and computer science fields by serving as  a trusted center and resource. It integrates  research with action and is anchored at the  University of California. Nerissa Draeger, our Anita B. Org – a non-profit that supports women technologists Director of Global University Engagements,  and Tammy Sanders, Senior Manager of I&D,  participated in the Women in Tech Leadership  Round Tables to discuss equity, inclusion, and  the disproportionate effects of COVID-19 on  underrepresented groups. We sponsor CED, a collection of professional  and personal development workshops that  increase understanding of how to contribute to  the advancement of diversity in the workplace.  Tammy Sanders, Senior Manager of I&D, spoke  on a panel at the 2020 virtual event about  solutions to gender inequity and burnout during  the pandemic. Our employees participated in the annual  semiconductor conference in separate  panels focused on I&D. Lubab Sheet-Davis,  Vice President of Strategy and Innovation,  presented on the I&D imperative for companies  while Antoinette Hamilton, Head of I&D, shared  strategies for attracting and retaining a diverse  workforce. Theron Smith, a GEM Fellow who interned with  us before joining full time in 2020, shares what  the relationship has meant to him. We proudly partner with the National GEM  Consortium (GEM), a premier organization  for the best and brightest underrepresented  minority STEM talent in the country. In our third  year of partnership, we sponsored 13 graduate  fellowships and hosted 21 graduate students in  summer internships. GEM aims to increase the participation of  underrepresented groups in STEM graduate  programs. Partners of GEM help support the  development and advancement of these  groups across approximately 120 colleges  and universities by providing full-tuition  fellowships at the master’s and doctorate  levels. In 2020, Tim Archer, our CEO, became  Chairman of the Board of Directors at GEM.  Brennan Marcano, CEO of GEM, said, “I can  think of nobody better to help us shift into an  even higher gear than Tim Archer.” “ Lam shares GEM’s belief that greater  diversity amplifies the technology  industry’s positive impact on our  communities. Partnering with  GEM is about opening doors for the  next generation, while advancing  innovation within the semiconductor  and technology industries.” “Being selected as a GEM Fellow has been a  tremendous experience. I received funding  to help me complete my Ph.D., formed many  meaningful relationships, and acquired multiple  internships with Lam Research. Interning  has been very gratifying and given me the  opportunity to utilize my technical aptitude,  intellectual curiosity, and passion for research.” LAM RESEARCH 1. Retention rate is calculated as the inverse of attrition. Celebrating a highly   engaged workforce    To build on our progress in employee engagement and voice, we deployed our global pulse survey  twice in 2020 with excellent participation, gathering input from employees on culture, I&D, career  opportunity, and manager effectiveness. Our efforts to foster employee engagement and create   a values-based culture are reflected in our employee feedback and key recruitment and   retention metrics. We believe recognition motivates employee engagement. To encourage a culture of recognition,  we created Above and Beyond, a program that allows employees to acknowledge innovative  contributions, problem solving, and demonstration of Core Values by an individual or a team. This  “everyone-to-everyone” program allows employees to nominate each other for their contributions,  and in 2020, employees recognized fellow colleagues with over 60,000 awards. Individual and team  accomplishments are recognized through our Vista, Outstanding Technical Achievement, and  Patented Innovation awards. Respectful treatment is fundamental to our culture, and thus we strive to amplify the best in  one another. In 2020, we launched a range of global initiatives focused on respectful treatment  including leader training sessions, conversation guides, and an intranet article series on how to  bolster respectful treatment and inclusive leadership. Karthik Rammohan, Group Vice President,  CSBG, is one leader who shared his approach: “Respectful treatment starts with getting the full  story, without bias. I try to determine what the other team’s end goal is and work collectively. It’s   all about going back to the Core Values.” Note: 2020 industry average for TRIR data was not available at time of publication. Data shown does not reflect our Silfex Ohio operations. Total recordable incident rate (Lam vs. Industry) 0.35 0.29 0.33 0.25 0.7 0.7 >60% of all injuries attributed to strains, sprains   and slips, trips, and falls Safety performance   0.25 - global recordable incident rate -   64% less than the industry average 43,000 hours of safety training Below 0.4 Prioritizing the health, safety, and well-being of our employees is critical to our ongoing success.  This was exemplified in 2020, as the pandemic caused a major shift in the way we work, live, learn,  and connect. Our product and services are essential to the electronic devices the world counts  on. We understand the important role we play in providing critical enabling technologies and at  the same time, our responsibility to ensure the safety of our employees at the workplace. Our top  priority in 2020 focused on keeping our employees safe while continuing to meet and exceed our   customer commitments. We invest in education, awareness, monitoring, and prevention programs to help recognize and  control safety hazards. The holistic approach of our environmental, health, and safety (EHS)  policies, programs, and response plans apply to everywhere we operate and extends to everyone  who works on our sites with the intent to provide a safe environment during both routine and  extraordinary circumstances. People managers in field support, manufacturing, R&D, warehouse,  and logistics operations undergo formal safety leadership training to enhance their skills in safety  management and communication. We screen contractors’ safety performance, and our contracts  require contractor compliance with the safety standards set forth in our Contractor Handbook.  Safety incidents concerning our contractors are reported to us, and we can take formal actions in  the event that contractors fail to adhere to our standards. We monitor our safety performance at the enterprise, regional, and site levels. By using our global  incident tracking system, our corporate EHS team can assess and monitor safety trends to report  to business units and executive leadership as a part of quarterly reviews. We maintain multi-site  certifications for ISO 45001, the globally recognized standard for occupational health and safety  management systems, and achieved validation for two new sites. With a layered approach to risk identification  and reduction, site and regional EHS teams  conduct annual safety risk assessments of  their local operations. We conducted more than  170,000 Risk Management by Walking Around  (RMBWA) inspections in 2020, a process which  continues to identify and track safety issues  as well as implement corrective actions in our  offices and manufacturing sites. In addition, our  Rapid Field Risk Assessment (RFRA) process  helps field teams manage risks at customer sites  and our Safety Awareness for Everyone (SAFE)  program keeps employees informed of emerging  safety issues and shares lessons learned from  past incidents. Our plans utilized administrative, engineering, and environmental controls such as face masks,  temperature monitoring, social distancing, sanitization, workforce segmentation, and indoor  air quality controls. EHS leadership created a roles and responsibilities guide for managers  responding to employees or contractors who had potential exposure to the virus. The team also  kept our remote workers safe by assisting with remote office setups, ergonomic assessments,   and planning for when and how remote workers will return to their office locations. In response to the pandemic, we developed a holistic approach that covered the safety, health,  wellness, and financial well-being of our employees. At the onset, our EHS team developed response plans in accordance with guidelines set forth  by the Center for Disease Control (CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO), and local and  national governments. We deployed our incident management teams (IMT), which include  representatives from all areas of discipline within the company at the executive, corporate, and  site level, to develop the necessary safety protocols. Through close coordination between the site  teams and the Corporate IMT, we adapted quickly to changing circumstances and ensured teams  were informed with timely and comprehensive guidance.  In bringing our essential workers back to the workplace, we used a conservative, phased  approach guided by public indicators and on-site readiness. Additional safety measures were  instituted at our sites with customized plans for each location, which have been continuously  updated with new information. We kept our employees informed with training, updated signage,  videos, and frequent communication from leadership. Our newly created COVID-19 internal  website provided a single resource for all employees globally to access critical information  relevant to their safety and changing guidelines and policies. The everyday actions of our employees, in  addition to some innovative engineering, aided  our safety efforts. A group working with 3D  printing created face shields for their colleagues  by pairing a 3D-printed visor with transparent  plastic — forming a shield that can be worn  with a surgical mask. In the early stages of  the pandemic, a viable temperature scanning  system wasn’t readily available in Villach, Austria  so an engineering team created a contactless  temperature measurement solution in just a  couple of hours using highly sensitive thermal  cameras from our operations. Thousands of Lam team members continued critical work on-site during the pandemic,   so our remote workers from around the world created a video to show these colleagues   their appreciation. “ Your tremendous dedication has been critical to ensuring the  semiconductor supply chain can keep up with the rapidly growing  demand for technology. Technology that has enabled people all  over the world to see doctors remotely, to educate their children  safely at home, to utilize artificial intelligence to accelerate  vaccine development, and even to stay entertained. I believe   that what you have accomplished this year is extraordinary   and I know that all Lam employees feel the same way.” A significant portion of our $25 million COVID-19 Relief Fund was directed to  health and safety, work-life management, and financial well-being measures  to holistically support our employees. We leveraged many existing resources  and events, converting a number of them to digital and on-demand platforms,  and added new programs and resources to support employees through this  extremely challenging time. •  Childcare support through Care.com (U.S. only) •  Leave of absence of up to 12 weeks paid family  leave for purpose of caring for children   at home because of school/daycare closure  (U.S. only) •  Webinars on stress management, family  support, and family wellness   •  Lifestyle account allowances for air purifiers,  tutoring, etc. (U.S. only)  •  Expanded leave policy to include remote  school and care for sick family members “ I think it is important to understand what matters to  your people and Lam does exactly that. Lam enables  a culture that promotes employee well-being and  is strengthened by positivity, meaningfulness, and  trust even in these difficult times. Multiple programs  were launched throughout this year that made this  belief even stronger.” We believe employees need holistic support to flourish. We design and prioritize programs that   take care of their physical, mental, and financial well-being inside and outside the workplace. The devastating wildfires in the Western U.S. also directly impacted many of our employees in  2020. We acted quickly to ensure their safety by controlling air quality within our buildings and  providing employees and their families in evacuation areas with temporary lodging assistance,  reimbursement of expenses related to the fire, and up to one week of pay if they were unable   to work. Our Total Rewards program incorporates a comprehensive compensation and benefits package  aimed at supporting employees’ financial, physical, and mental well-being. Our annual review of  salaries and benefits packages, using third-party benchmarking surveys, ensures our offerings are  aligned with the marketplace and attractive to top talent. We offer a competitive 401(k) benefit,  an employee annual stock purchase plan, and annual bonuses. Employee directors and above and  other selected employees are eligible to receive stock awards. We recognize the importance of time away from work for personal reasons, and offer annual paid holidays and  time off, which we extended in 2020 with two new wellness days. We also shut down the company periodically  during the year to provide employees a chance to unplug and reset. The opportunity for growing families to  connect with each other is an important part of supporting our employees, which is why we offer 12 weeks of paid  family leave at 100% of salary for new parents of biological, adopted, and foster children in the U.S. We also offer  up to $10,000 for adoption expenses. Our long-time focus on health and well-being, financial well-being, and stress management became even more  prevalent during the pandemic as we expanded our LiveWell programs and resources available to our employees  and their families. Activities are customized to each location around the world, and include health and wellness  education, events and seminars, health and genetic screenings, personalized nutrition and plans, and fitness  programs. In 2020, we hosted 96 employee events, one of which was our first global virtual health fair that  featured sessions on wellness topics such as healthy cooking, gardening, mindfulness, and self-defense. Lam Korea became certified as a family-friendly company by  the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family in 2020. Selected  companies were recognized for operating an excellent family- friendly work system and fostering a supportive corporate  culture. All Lam Korea locations were recognized for systems  that harmonize flexibility in the workplace, compensation, and  benefits. Our programs that focus on caring for families include  encouraging the use of parental leave and providing parent  education classes to help employees with elementary school   and preschool children. We’re only as good as our ability to engage top talent, and our university programs are how we  reach them. Many of our senior executives began their careers with us right out of college —  demonstrating that our university program contributes to our leadership pipeline. To tap into the  best and brightest students, we prioritize core initiatives including an internship program, new  college graduate rotation program, campus events, and thesis awards and scholarships. Our New College Graduate (NCG) program combines educational training with real-life experiences  that help prepare them for their careers. In 2020, we recruited 13% of our new hires through our  NCG program from over 85 universities globally. As part of its vision to build leaders for the future, Global Operations launched a new internship  program with Portland Community College (PCC) in Oregon. This partnership provides associate  degree students in the Microelectronics Technology program with the opportunity to gain industry  experience over an 18-month period while applying the knowledge obtained through their classes.  Our goal is to hire interns once they achieve their Associate Degree in Microelectronics Technology  and successfully complete their internship. “We’re excited to offer this program as a new bridge to the community and local educational  institutions,” says Amanda York, Director of Manufacturing, Tualatin, OR. “We hope the program will  help propel future leaders within our industry.”    “I enjoy working in a friendly and professional environment with the chance to work on real tools to  help me understand what I’m learning at school,” says PCC Intern Emily Nguyen, working in Sabre  Manufacturing, Tualatin. “I’m excited to continue my journey at Lam.” Why did you choose to intern at Lam? I chose to intern at Lam because I wanted to   be part of an organization that not only strives   for the best but also truly cares and invests in   their people. What skills did you develop during  your internship? Interning at Lam further developed my problem- solving abilities and helped me understand how  we can utilize effective communication to identify  and find solutions to problems. By fostering our employees’ professional growth at every level of the organization, we spark  innovation and next-generation ideas. In reaction to the pandemic, we built, expanded, and  pivoted development programs to adapt to our new environment, implementing remote learning,  and converting more than 70% of our offerings. “At Lam, we believe that everyone is a leader, and  everyone is a learner,” says Jessie Lockhart, Senior Director of Global Learning and Organizational  Development. We want to ensure our remote employees have access to flexible development opportunities, so in  2020 we introduced three new resources to support their personal and professional development. Learning@Lam - Brings all of Lam’s development and training sites  together to showcase the development opportunities across the   entire company. Learning Connect - A new platform that houses all learning and  development resources. Employees can access training, track progress,  and plan their development activity. iLearn - On-demand, online content integrated within Learning Connect.  Content includes training modules, videos, and audio books on topics  covering business operations, leadership, collaboration, and   personal well-being. $1.65M Remimbursement dollars for educational expenses For us, leadership is defined as creating  positive change, developing yourself and others  to be better, motivating and inspiring people to  achieve their goals, and harnessing the power  of inclusive teams. Our leadership development  programs are designed to scale leadership  across our business by guiding managers to  motivate, inspire, and lead employees through  change. Our three leadership programs,  Grow, Lead, and Edge, are designed to  meet managers at different stages of their  careers. Grow focuses on new managers and  effective communication, Lead is designed for  experienced managers to up-level leadership  skills, and Edge equips executives to drive  positive change. Across these three programs,  we engaged virtually with nearly 600 managers  in 2020. Our technical program, Leap, provides  engineers with 4 levels of skills certification  across 11 disciplines. Over 300 courses  are available, shaped from the collective  knowledge of over 100 subject-matter- experts globally. Since inception, nearly  1,000 employees have achieved their  Leap certification. In 2020, the team that  implemented the Leap program received  recognition for their efforts with a  prestigious Vista Award. As part of our organizational audit process,  each CEO staff member identified high- potential diverse employees for a talent review  with the entire CEO team. Development  plans were created for each employee in this  diverse talent pool, which include exposure,  experience, education, and CEO staff  sponsorship. In total, 70 people were chosen  for this development opportunity. We accelerate employee development,  broaden career opportunities, and expand  professional networks for employees through  our mentorship, coaching, and rotation  programs. In 2020, we launched Mentor  Match, a new technology expanding our  ability to facilitate mentorship relationships  across the company. In addition, we piloted  BetterUp, an online coaching platform with  a group of 180 managers. The first six-month  coaching engagement focused on support for  leading through a pandemic as well as general  leadership development. “ In my career, I’ve had several excellent  mentors who helped me in many ways. I  wouldn’t be where I am without them,   and I feel that it’s now my turn to offer that  guidance and help to others.” Amber Barber,     Lean Six Sigma Master Black     Belt and Lam mentor, Oregon. Building a supply chain that is responsible, resilient,  and diverse supports the success of Lam, our  customers, and our suppliers. With our Core Values  at the foundation of our business, we approach our  supply chain with the same focus on human rights,  the environment, and diversity that we apply to our  own business — and we hold our suppliers to these  same standards. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Sourcing the specialized components  needed for our process equipment and  services requires a robust, global supply  chain. We work closely with our suppliers  to address critical issues including  human rights, mineral sourcing,  environmental impact, and supplier  diversity. We are committed to complying  with laws and regulations and expect our  direct material suppliers to conduct their  business in the same manner. We actively encourage our suppliers to join  us in becoming members of the RBA and will  request all of our top-tier suppliers complete  the RBA self-assessment questionnaire in   2021. As of 2020, nearly one-third of our top   32 suppliers are RBA members, representing  29% of our global spend. As part of our commitment to creating a  responsible and transparent supply chain that  is pursuant to RBA requirements, we conduct  self-assessments to identify the greatest social,  environmental, and ethical risks. Our RBA  scores at corporate and site levels range from  87% to 91%, which the RBA rates as low risk. We actively engage with our suppliers to manage risk and promote an ethical, responsible supply  chain and uphold the guidelines published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) and the  RBA, of which we are a member. The RBA is the world’s largest industry coalition dedicated to  corporate responsibility in global supply chains, and our Global Supplier Code of Conduct requires  suppliers’ adherence to both the RBA Code of Conduct and ISM Guiding Principles. We require our  new suppliers to acknowledge and agree to our Global Supplier Code of Conduct as part of the  onboarding process. In 2020, we enhanced our Global Supplier Code of Conduct by integrating  additional compliance requirements provided in the RBA Code of Conduct. Our management approach includes surveys, verifications and certifications, training and  communications, compliance audits and inspections, and corrective actions when warranted.  We regularly survey our suppliers and review responses to evaluate their performance and risks,  utilizing our supplier scorecard which incorporates ESG factors. One way we measure progress  is by using third-party scoring entities such as the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark and  KnowtheChain. Our Global Supply Chain Management Operations has a dedicated ESG manager who leads our  supply chain risk assessment and compliance efforts. The head of global supply chain management  business operations is responsible for our supply chain ESG performance. Our cross-functional  Supply Chain Committee is comprised of representatives from our direct and indirect supply chain  teams, environmental health and safety, legal, and ESG. The Committee meets regularly to identify  opportunities, develop plans, and provide input on the implementation of responsible supply  chain initiatives throughout our business. In 2020, the Committee launched several foundational  initiatives including: Asia 26.8% Europe, the Middle East,  and Africa 3.8% Supplier spend by geography Americas 69.5% As of 2020, we have a global supply chain footprint with suppliers in over 30 countries. Our minerals are responsibly  sourced from a variety of smelters in 52 countries. Wherever we do business, we respect human rights and adhere to humane business practices.  Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct is intended to promote safe working conditions and  respectful, dignified treatment to those working in our supply chain. We support workers’ rights to  freedom of association and collective bargaining (to the extent permitted under local laws) and  declare our support in our Global Employment Practices statement. This statement is distributed  or communicated via email, published through our intranet, and made publicly available on our  external website. We expect our suppliers to adhere to these same practices. We also train our  employees in the supply chain management organization annually on how to carry out inspections  and recognize potential signs of human rights abuses. In 2020, over 200 employees participated in  this training. One way we hold suppliers accountable for upholding human rights is by surveying our top 100  suppliers located in countries the International Labor Organization identifies as high-risk for human  trafficking. We utilize the Slavery and Trafficking Risk Template (STRT) developed by the Social  Responsibility Alliance, which helps us prioritize our due diligence and risk mitigation actions. In  2020, we had an 80% response rate to the STRT survey. We work with specific suppliers to trace the journeys of migrant workers from their home countries  to places of work, enabling us to identify and manage risks. As a result of an 18-month pilot,  suppliers returned employment fees to 172 foreign migrant workers and implemented corrective  action plans. We required all participating suppliers to enact policies that prohibit forced and  bonded labor in any form. We are using the findings from the pilot program to expand our scope  and augment our supplier risk assessments. Our Ethics Helpline is available to our suppliers and their employees as well as Helpline information  on our corporate website and in our Global Supplier Code of Conduct. We did not receive any  reports made from our supply chain or their workforce regarding human trafficking and forced labor  in 2020. Our goal is to use only responsibly sourced  minerals in our products. We do not directly  purchase conflict minerals nor have any  direct relationship with the mines or smelters  that process them. We use the conflict  minerals reporting template developed by  the Responsible Minerals Initiative to assess  our suppliers. In 2020, 97% of our suppliers  responded to the survey. The environmental sustainability commitment  we uphold extends to our supply chain, so our  Global Supplier Code of Conduct includes  requirements for environmentally responsible  manufacturing processes. We encourage  suppliers to adopt adequate measures and  work towards improving environmental  performance. In 2020, we released a new  supplier survey that requests information on GHG emissions, CDP scores, environmental  sustainability goals, supplier environmental  practices, third-party certifications, and RBA  membership. We had 100% of our top tier  suppliers respond to the survey this year. We value a diverse supply chain and aim to  identify and select diverse suppliers that offer  goods and services that meet our company’s  standards, supplier selection criteria, and  customer requirements. By supporting industry  and customer initiatives around supplier  diversity, we enable and promote a more  diverse supplier base. Diversity is also included  in our supplier scorecard, and we track and  report spending with diverse direct material  suppliers on a quarterly basis. We are using this  data to facilitate a cross-functional approach  to supplier diversity. $75.5M - total spend with diverse  suppliers the supply chain. We awarded the first-ever Supplier Excellence Award for ESG   to Celestica, Inc. for their support and progress in their human trafficking and   forced and bonded labor program. Khairiah Jaafar accepted the award on  Celestica’s behalf.   “As members of the Responsible Business Alliance, we are vocal advocates for  the RBA’s Code of Conduct that establishes standards for how all companies  in the electronics industry should behave to ensure that people are treated  with respect and dignity, are provided with a safe work environment, and that  manufacturing processes and supply chain practices are environmentally  responsible,” says Greg Marvell, Vice President of Celestica. Since 2005, we’ve recognized companies  who demonstrate exceptional commitment to  outstanding performance with Supplier Excellence  Awards. In 2020, we added an Environmental,  Social, and Governance (formerly Corporate Social  Responsibility) Award at our annual Supplier  Day event. This gathering of our top suppliers  strengthens collaborative partnerships and creates  opportunities to drive continuous improvements in During the global disruption due to COVID-19, we worked closely with suppliers to  ensure our supply chain remained resilient and flexible. We proactively addressed  potential vulnerabilities and mitigated risks across the network, and we continue  to monitor and manage risks in real-time through a dynamic scoring process.  This work helped us prepare for future disruption, and we intend to continue  collaborating with suppliers to build a supply chain that can handle prolonged  demand increase and disruptions with minimal impact to our customers and to  Lam. We shared best practices and business resiliency success factors at our  annual Supplier Day and through outreach to our supplier base. Tackling climate change and preserving the planet  is paramount, and we strive to do our part. We do  this by integrating environmental considerations  into our operations. SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Incorporating environmental  sustainability into business leads to better  products, more efficient operations, and  added value for our customers. As our  business grows, and with it our footprint,  we implement a global approach that  embraces energy efficiency, GHG  emissions reductions, water conservation,  waste reduction, and chemical  management. We set 2025 goals that guide our strategy and in 2020 we   made gains across all five goals. Achieved a 4.2% reduction Achieved a 4.2% reduction Achieved a 4.2% reduction Saved 2.6 million kWh Saved 2.6 million kWh Saved 2.6 million kWh Conducted waste audits at four sites Conducted waste audits at four sites Reduced waste to landfill to 0.005% Conducted waste audits at four sites Reduced waste to landfill to 0.005% Saved 7.2 million gallons Reduced waste to landfill to 0.005% Saved 7.2 million gallons Saved 7.2 million gallons Achieved 2.6 million kWh savings  through energy efficiency  Completed waste audits at our sites in  California, Oregon, and Ohio Decreased the total global amount of  hazardous waste disposed to landfill  from 1.10% in 2019 to 0.005% Achieved a 4.2% reduction Saved 2.6 million kWh Reduced waste to landfill to 0.005% Saved 7.2 million gallons Achieve 17 million gallons of   water savings (15%) in water- stressed regions regions from   a 2019 baseline Achieved a 4.2% reduction Saved 2.6 million kWh Reduced waste to landfill to 0.005% Saved 7.2 million gallons Climate change is one of the most substantial challenges of our time, with environmental,   social, and economic implications and we recognize our responsibility to act. Our climate impacts  come from our R&D and manufacturing activities, supply chain, and use of our products. Our  management approach focuses on reducing our energy use and GHG emission in our operations  and we are currently developing a strategy to proactively address all of our scope 3 emissions for  future activation. Advanced technologies that support  our customers’ needs are increasing our  energy use in R&D and manufacturing.  In 2020, the total energy use from our  primary manufacturing and office locations  increased. Primary contributors include  expanded operations at our Ohio and Oregon  manufacturing sites, and start-up operations  at our new site in Malaysia. Per guidance in the GHG Protocol, we recalculated our energy use for the baseline year 2019 to include our world-wide leased offices. This resulted in  a 9.0% increase in our total energy consumption in 2019 from 303 million kWh to 330 million kWh. 89 0.2 0.3 351 million kWh in total energy usage  6.3% increase over 2019  2.6 million kWh in energy savings 1.3 1.4 94 0.0003 0.00035 0.00025 0.0002 0.00005 0.0001 0.00015 Energy use is a key focus for reducing our  environmental and climate impacts, especially  as the company grows. Improving the energy  efficiency of our operations by optimizing  existing systems and implementing new  efficiency projects ensures we minimize   energy use, while still meeting the needs   of our customers.     As part of our 2025 goals, we aim to achieve  12 million kWh of energy savings from a 2019  baseline. In 2020, we completed projects that  will yield 2.6 million kWh in annual energy  savings. Initiatives that contributed to these  savings include: •  Continuing the work from 2019 to replace  vacuum pumps at our Tualatin, Oregon  campus. The project will result in saving  or avoiding 1.2 million kWh per year of  additional energy use In addition to conserving energy, we use  renewable energy as part of our environmental  management approach. At the end of 2020,  renewable energy and energy with an  equivalent amount of voluntary renewable  attributes made up 30% of our U.S. energy use,  and 32% of our global use. Our Villach, Austria  facility meets 100% of site energy needs with  renewable energy. U.S. % renewable energy and   voluntary renewable attributes In 2020, we purchased approximately 21  million kWh of renewable energy certificates  (RECs), equivalent to 48% of the electricity  consumption in Eaton, Ohio. With these RECs,  Lam was able to avoid the emission of 10,210  metric tons CO2e. We are committed to doing our part to mitigate climate change by managing  our GHG emissions: setting goals, closely tracking our emissions, and reporting  progress annually. Energy use is a primary driver of our emissions, so energy  management is a key aspect of our strategy. We also actively address our carbon  footprint through procurement strategies, GHG abatement, renewable energy  credits, and carbon offsets. Scope 3 emissions are based on 2019 data. In 2020, we made progress towards our  2025 goal to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2  emissions by 25%. Our combined scope 1 and  scope 2 market-based emissions decreased by  4.2% over 2019 through the procurement   of RECs. Per guidance in the GHG Protocol, we recalculated our scope 1 and 2 emissions for the baseline year 2019 to include our worldwide leased offices.  The inclusion of the leased offices resulted in a  6.3% increase in GHG emission in 2019 from 111,479 MTCO2e e to 118,458 MTCO2e. Scope 1 Scope 2, market-based Normalized scope 1 + 2 emissions 0.09 113,482 MTCO2e scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions  7.8% decrease in scope 2 market-based emissions via  RECs  4.3% increase in scope 2 location-based emissions  4.0% increase in scope 1 emissions 0.10 0.08 0 0.08 0.02 0.06 0.12 More than half of our scope 1 emissions can be attributed to process gases  used for customer demonstrations and R&D activities. We mitigate our scope  1 emissions through optimization of our semiconductor processes and the  use of best-available emission control technologies. Our scope 2 emissions  are attributed to our purchased electricity. Investing in energy efficiency and  renewable energy credits are our top strategies for addressing our energy use  and scope 2 emissions. We recognize the importance of measuring,  tracking, and evaluating the GHG impacts of  both our upstream and downstream business  activities. In 2020, we initiated an effort to  better understand our scope 3 emissions by  conducting an inventory utilizing standard  accounting protocols.2 The inventory serves  as both a baseline to track future GHG  reductions and a launching point to accelerate  sustainability efforts across the entire  value chain. The most significant emissions  categories include the use of sold products and  purchased goods and services. •  Purchasing offsets: In 2020, we offset  100% of our emissions associated with air  travel and car rental via carbon credits.  The credits funded two projects – a 40 MW  wind power project in Nicaragua and a  wind farm in Oklahoma. •  Providing inter-campus shuttles: We  offer daily shuttle services between  our California facilities (Fremont and  Livermore). We also offer a Commuter  Benefit program that helps employees save  on eligible commuting costs through pre- tax pay deductions. We used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard,  and the GHG Protocol Technical Guidance for Calculation scope 3 Emissions (version 1.0.) Total scope 3 emissions are based on 2019 data. Business travel data and  offsets based on 2020. data. •  Investing in charging stations: Sites  in California and Oregon feature onsite  electric vehicle charging stations that  contribute to reducing commuter  emissions. We installed 3 more charging  stations in 2020, for a total of 37 charging  stations in operation. 2.9 million MTCO2e total scope 3 emissions  74% decrease in business travel in gasoline savings in 2020. Equal to 1.5 million  vehicle miles or taking  270 cars off the road each  workday. We communicate our climate change, carbon, water, and waste risks and  opportunities through CDP, a non-profit organization that assesses corporate  climate impacts on behalf of the investor community. In 2020, we received a B  grade on both the Climate Change Survey and the Water Survey. Our scores are  comparable or higher than average for the North America region and the electrical  and electronic equipment sector. We are also in the early stages of communicating our approach to climate  governance, strategy, risk management, metrics, and targets via the framework  developed by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).  Several elements of our approach are outlined in this report. Starting in 2020, we aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework and excluded the non-hazardous wastewater disposed or recycled off- site in our overall diversion rate for non-hazardous waste. Any non-hazardous wastewater is now reported under wastewater management. Waste reduction, recycling, and reuse continue to be a focus for us. We monitor and manage both  hazardous and non-hazardous wastes generated by our operations and work to find ways to  recover and recycle materials. Most of the waste we generate is a result of our manufacturing and  R&D activities, with roughly 71% of our waste being non-hazardous. As accepted materials and  recycling regulations change, we work with local partners to identify new recycling opportunities  for hard-to-recycle items. The other 29% of our waste is considered hazardous, the management of  which is strictly monitored and regulated. The major non-hazardous wastes that we generate are wood pallets, cardboard and packaging  materials, and municipal wastes. We have management systems in place at each site that align  with local regulations to ensure we capture a variety of waste streams. When municipal recycling  services are not available for specific items, we explore options to contract vendors that repurpose  or recycle those materials. As part of our 2025 environmental goals, we  audited non-hazardous waste in 2020 to gain  greater understanding of our waste streams  and establish a goal for reduction. The audit  results provided insights into key opportunities  to eliminate waste, improve our recycling  efforts, and repurpose specific materials. With  this new data, we are working to set a new  long-term target for 2025. COVID-19 restrictions. We achieved a 70%  diversion rate globally, an increase over 2019  due to a recategorization of non-hazardous  wastewater to offsite wastewater treatment3. We increased hazardous waste generation  in 2020, primarily due to the process  wastewater generated from our Austria and  Ohio facilities which are disposed at an off- site treatment facility. The main hazardous  wastes we generate are corrosive wastes,  flammable wastes, and lab debris from our  manufacturing and R&D activities. We have  strict controls to ensure responsible handling  of these hazardous wastes and prioritize   treatment and recycling. 2,415 metric tons of hazardous waste  14% increase over 2019  0.005% hazardous waste to landfill As part of our 2025 goals, we committed to  achieve zero hazardous waste to landfill. In  2020, we made progress by working directly  with our hazardous waste disposal vendors to  seek out alternative disposal methods such   as thermal treatment or waste-to-energy.   This resulted in disposing only 0.005% (or 0.1  metric ton) of our total global hazardous   waste generated to landfill, as compared to  1.10% in 2019. We diverted most of our hazardous waste to  offsite wastewater treatment and recycling.  Common recycling methods are fuel blending, Recycled 22.3% Landfill 0.005% Waste-to-energy 0.9% Offsite wastewater  treatment 56.1%  Deep-well  injection 17.7% solvent recovery, and metal recycling. Other  hazardous wastes were disposed to either  deep-well injection or off-site wastewater  treatment. As part of our due diligence, we continue to  partner with CHWMEG, a non-profit trade  association whose members strive to efficiently  steward waste, to audit our major off-site  hazardous waste treatment, storage, and  disposal facilities (TSDF). The CHWMEG’s  comprehensive audit is an integral part of our  TSDF selection and risk assessment process. Thermal treatment 2.9% In 2020, we enhanced our chemical information management system (CIMS) training modules to  promote accountability and ownership. The new modules provide better guidance to all employees  on how to submit and expedite approval of their chemical requests, as well as how to access and  update their own chemical inventory in the CIMS portal. We also implemented new EHS design requirements for new construction and operations, including  the greenfield facilities in Malaysia and South Korea. These EHS standards include secondary  containment of chemicals, spill prevention control (i.e., safe valves, sumps, leak detection),  prohibition of direct buried chemical tanks and pipes regardless of controls, fall protection tie-off  points, and confined space safety features. We understand the criticality of water, especially in areas of the world where water scarcity is an  issue, so we work to manage our water use and industrial wastewater responsibly with a localized  approach across our footprint. This may include upgrading equipment to more efficient models and  installing onsite water treatment systems to reuse water for other purposes. Water stewardship is an important component of our overall environmental impact, as we consume  water for tool testing and manufacturing of silicon parts, general facilities, industrial cooling, and  domestic usage. We track and monitor our water use on a site-by-site basis. In 2020, the total water  use from our primary manufacturing and office locations increased. Primary contributors include  expanded operations at our Ohio manufacturing sites and start-up operations at our new site   in Malaysia. As part of our 2025 environmental goals, we set a goal to achieve 17 million gallons of water savings  in water-stressed areas through water efficiency projects. In 2020, we made progress towards that  goal by achieving 7.2 million gallons of water savings through the addition of water reduction units  on the new point-of-use abatement systems installed at our facilities in California. In 2020, our operations consumed 292  million gallons of water globally and 114  million in water-stressed regions. We are  adopting the World Resources Institute  (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas in  identifying water risk and water stress.  With this, we consider our facilities in  California, South Korea, and Malaysia as  water-stressed areas. 197 228 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 0.0002 276 292 292 million gallons of total water usage  6% increase over 2019  39% of usage occurs in water-stressed areas  7.2 million gallons of water savings 0.00015 0 0.0001 0.00005 0.0002 0.00025 To be a good steward in our communities, we monitor our industrial wastewater in accordance with  local regulatory requirements. Beyond wastewater, we also implement best management practices  to control our stormwater discharges. Our Tualatin, Oregon facility also reclaims treated process  wastewater, using it as feed water to the house scrubbers and point-of-use abatement units in the  R&D labs. The reclaimed water helps to reduce our total global water withdrawals and the amount  of municipal water needed to support our facility infrastructure. Approximately 72 million gallons of  wastewater were reclaimed at this site last year, which represents 58% of the wastewater treated  on-site at our global facilities. In 2020, our Ohio facilities generated 0.46 million gallons of non-hazardous wastewater containing  less than 5% glycol. The glycol is recovered by a third-party, and the treated wastewater is  discharged to the local sewer. 1.4 1.4 “ We get excited when we try something that is new, unique  to Lam, or has a visible impact. We have now had enough  success that folks in Tualatin go out of their way to broaden  our scope and help us achieve the ESG goals.” We engage employees and work collaboratively to manage our  impact on the planet as part of our ongoing commitment. Our  employees around the world take action to protect biodiversity,   such as planting specific flowers and trees to protect pollinators  around our Austria, Oregon, and Taiwan facilities. In 2020, we launched our Employee Environmental  Stewardship Award to recognize outstanding group and  individual contributions towards environmental protection and  conservation either at Lam or in our communities. Our winners: •  Greg Novacek, Technical Program Manager, Livermore, CA won  the individual award. He has volunteered for the Arnold Rim Trail  Association as a Trail Director for four years. •  Our team award went to the “Be Friends with Butterfly” team  in Taiwan. The group partnered with the Butterfly Conservation  Society of Taiwan to organize a lecture for employees to learn  about butterfly conservation, and an employee volunteer event  to plant beneficial flower species for native butterflies. Employees around the world participated in the Earth Month EcoChallenge, a 30-day online  program designed by Ecochallenge.org to encourage sustainable practices. Employees commit  to a variety of practices at work or at home that can positively impact the environment, our  communities, and ourselves. “Through programs such as EcoChallenge we emphasize that every  action contributes to a positive, collective impact and a sustainable future for all,” stated Jami  Haaning, Senior Manager of ESG, Oregon. expertise. The events of 2020 created additional  hardships for many of our neighbors, and we  responded swiftly with a $7 million commitment   for global relief and recovery. We also continued to support existing  education and community programs  to make a lasting impact in our  communities. To maximize the long-term  effect of our efforts, the Lam Research  Foundation focuses on two areas of  giving: K-12 Science, Technology,  Engineering, and Math (STEM)  education, and quality of life. Our social  impact programs include community  grantmaking, employee gift matching,  volunteer activities, and scholarships. These goals do not include COVID-19 grant making. Committed $7 million to support our  communities through the COVID-19  pandemic Contributed $3.6 million in support for  non-profit organizations outside of our  COVID-19 response $1.65M $3.6M* $5.1M 1,640 Advancing student achievement in STEM education contributes to economic development in  our communities and provides access to the possibilities of technology. We provide grants and  volunteer support to K-12 and university STEM-related initiatives. Our grant program focuses  on inspiring interest in STEM education, addressing gender and achievement gap challenges,  supporting secondary education preparedness, and addressing education needs in underserved  communities. We are driven to help students learn and build their future, and in 2020, provided $1.3 million5  specifically for STEM education to non-profits, schools, and other education-related organizations. •  Since its creation, we have supported the Hispanic Foundation of Silicon Valley’s Latinos in  Technology program, which awards scholarships to Latinx college juniors and seniors who  have declared a major in a STEM-related field. Scholars can also take advantage of summer  internship programs and career coaching opportunities. As of December 2020, the program   has served nearly 400 college students. •  We continued our relationship with Girls, Inc. and their Eureka! Program, enabling 8th through  12th grade girls in underserved communities to explore  STEM fields. Program support included  a virtual dashboard of resources including videos, virtual equipment demos, and lab tours. •  On behalf of our subsidiary, Silfex, we supported the Springfield, OH High School STEM  Learning Academy, which offers STEM education programs to its student body of more than  1800 students at all four high school grade levels. •  We continue to contribute funding for        Taiwan’s National Science and Technology       Museum’s robotics and coding programs       for elementary and junior high school        students from remote and disadvantaged       areas.  •  In January 2020, students of Shri Sharada       Vidya Mandir were invited to experience       life at Lam India. Activities included         presentations and career guidance sessions       designed to inspire thought about different       career choices. •  Lam Singapore supported the Singapore  Children’s Society annual “Walk for Our  Children” to benefit programs and services  for vulnerable youth. Employees also joined  in to help fund dinner for two months for  100 children and families during the Dinners  From our Hearts fundraising program. We create positive impact in communities  around the world by contributing to local,  national, and international organizations that  support critical needs such as food and water  security, health improvement, disaster relief,  and aid for disadvantaged children and senior  citizens. In addition to our COVID-19 grants, we  supported our existing non-profit partners with  $1.4 million5 in grants to further quality of life in  our communities. •  As a long-time supporter of the Heart &  Soles Run, we collaborated with the Silicon  Valley Leadership Group Foundation  to take the event virtual. Hundreds of  participants proudly wore their race jerseys  and went for a walk, run, or jog on their own  to benefit local youth health and wellness  programs. •  We provided funding for medical expenses  and other needs for underprivileged  childhood cancer patients through our  support of the Korea Childhood Leukemia  Foundation. •  Lam Taiwan supported Andrew Food  Bank’s food distributions programs with  financial and volunteer support. Our long-standing Core Values Scholarship  program is a point of pride for us, as it  supports graduating high school seniors who  maintain impressive academic records, exhibit  leadership and community involvement, and  consistently demonstrate our Core Values. Now  in its 17th year, the scholarship program has  awarded more than $1.2 million to 128 students. •  In response to the devastating wildfires  in California and Oregon, we responded  with grants to American Red Cross Bay  Area Chapter for those affected by fires in  California, and Red Cross Cascades Region  for those affected in Oregon. Employee giving programs – gift matching for monetary  donations, volunteer opportunities, donations for volunteer  time, and employee-sponsored grants – amplify our employees’  impact as they contribute to the causes they care most about.  Through these programs, we were able to engage employees  and our communities this year despite the pandemic. •  On National STEM Day, we held our annual Manufacturing  Day event in Oregon, hosting it virtually for more than 100  high school students. Employees provided insights into  the semiconductor equipment manufacturing industry,  shared their career journey, and gave students a peek into  our operations via a live-stream equipment installation.  “Manufacturing is a more enticing field than I had previously  believed,” said one inspired student. “It’s a field that is  exponentially expanding, with opportunities to travel all over  the world to fix tools and get training.” •  Employees in Korea held a virtual Lam Tech Talk at the Korea  Advanced Institute of Science and Technology coupled with  the donation of over 100 textbooks to encourage and inspire  the next generation of engineers . •  Lam Taiwan, together with the Tse-Xin Organic Agriculture  Foundation, held a tree planting event in Shazhu Bay,  Jinshan, New North City to support the sustainability of the  coastal ecology. By cultivating sound shoreline forests we  curb the retreat, and support the long-term maintenance of  this ecology. •  Deliver Joy, our holiday giving campaign, continued in 2020  through the creativity of our employees with donated gifts  and food, recorded storybook readings for hospitalized  children, and playhouse builds for local parks.  •  Through our Inspire. Together grant program, employees  nominate a non-profit organization to receive a grant. Since  its inception in 2017, the program has generated $600,000  for community organizations. In support of our employees through the pandemic, we gave each employee, below the director  level, a one-time payment of $1,000 (or the globally scaled equivalent). Employees could use the  funding for their own needs or distribute it where they could make an impact. Many employees  chose to use the gift to support others. Read more about our support for employees during the  COVID-19 crisis in our Workplace chapter. •  Larry Smurthwaite, Engineering Technician, Tualatin, OR gave his grant to an owner-operated  small business that had to close its doors due to restrictions.  •  Manish Pillai, Senior Expeditor, India, helped a friend who had been laid off and donated to   the United Way.  •  Shuang Fei He, Field Ser vice Engineer, China, supported his parents through tough   financial times.  •  Padma Gopalakrishnan, Senior Technical Program Manager, Fremont, CA helped her children  establish a scholarship fund for refugees. •  Hou Litao, Staff Supplier Engineer, Singapore, donated to a local food pantry. As part of our $25 million commitment for global COVID-19 relief and recovery efforts, we  designated $7 million for assistance in communities where we live and work. Funds were localized  to each community’s specific needs, such as food security, shelter, education, personal protective  equipment for local hospitals as well as longer-term recovery efforts. This included a 2-for-1  matching gift campaign for employee monetary donations to eligible COVID-19 relief programs.  More than 200 organizations were supported through this campaign in 2020, and our commitment  continues into 2021. Our donations included: “ Every community around the world has been impacted by the spread of COVID-19. The magnitude of  these impacts has challenged every aspect of our lives – health care, school systems, and economies of  every size. Supporting our employees and our communities is a core part of who Lam is as a company” A voluntary team of 13 engineers from Lam Research India collaborated with 5 local doctors to find  solutions to challenges associated with COVID-19 testing. The team designed the Suraksha Kiosk,  an innovative sample collection kiosk that provides a protective physical barrier between the health  professional and the patient. The kiosk, named after the Hindi word for safety or protection, was  then built by a local manufacturer, all in less than one month. The Minister of Medical Education, Government of Karnataka inaugurated the first kiosk. Realizing  the benefits of the kiosk, the Department of Medical Education requested more Suraksha kiosks  for city hospitals and entry points, which we helped fund. To further the impact of their work, the  design is an open-source publication on surakshakiosk.com. “This kiosk will revolutionize the way we collect samples, and the increase in the number of samples  collected will lead to more tests in a day hence increasing the detection of disease,” said Dr.  Arjun Bhugra MBBS (Microbiology), one of the doctors on the team. “The uniquely designed kiosks  protect frontline healthcare workers,” said Dr. K Sudhakar, Minister of Medical Education for the  Government of Karnataka. “I would like to thank Lam’s volunteers and its ESG team for stepping  forward to help the community in this time of dire need.” •  The Equal Justice Initiative (EJI) - A legal-aid organization whose mission is to end mass  incarceration, excessive punishment, and racial inequality. EJI’s areas of focus include criminal  justice reform, protection for children from abusive treatment in the adult criminal justice  system, and public education addressing racial justice. Their work includes the Community  Remembrance Project that chronicles the history of racial injustice. Acts of racial discrimination and violence go against everything we stand for at Lam. Our vision for  our company and society is that every person feels valued, respected, and empowered to achieve  their full potential — regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, age, national origin, religion, or sexual  orientation. Our sadness, anger, and frustration over the incidents of racial injustice in 2020 incited  us to take action. We pledged $500,000 to support initiatives fighting social injustice and allocated  $500,000 from our COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Fund to the Black communities that have  been disproportionately affected by the pandemic. We partnered with our Community of Latinos  and African Americans for Student Success (C.L.A.S.S.) employee resource group to identify the  organizations to receive our support. •  The Center for Policing Equity (CPE) - A non-profit think tank made up of research scientists  as well as race and equity experts. The organization works with police departments across  the U.S. using data to address discriminatory practices. CPE is now creating “COMPSTAT  for Justice,” a process to aggregate and analyze data with a goal of empowering police  departments and communities to collaborate on strategies for accountability, reduction in racial  disparities, and development of shared values of fairness. •   UNCF  - A leading advocate for minority education, established an emergency fund to provide  their partner historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) with critical resources for  students who are facing increased financial hardship as a result of COVID-19. Support includes  laptop computers, broadband for access to online learning, shelter, meals, basic essentials, and  other necessities for students unable to return home. •  iUrbanTeen - A community organization that aims to inspire underrepresented youth to  become tomorrow’s business and technology leaders. They provide career-related education  for underrepresented teens in cities across the U.S., including tech immersion events, STEM  and arts training programs and camps, and mentoring and internship opportunities. In response  to the COVID-19 pandemic, they created MindStream, a free online learning platform for  homebound teens. Although we’re proud to make these monetary contributions, our work doesn’t stop here. We  continue to influence positive changes within communities and our workplace. Read more about  our commitment to inclusion, diversity, and equity in our Workplace chapter. “ The ripple effect of COVID-19 has the potential to prevent  students from continuing their education. UNCF is grateful  for this support that will provide a pathway for students to  continue on their journey to attain a college degree. Gifts  like these affirm our motto that a mind is a terrible thing   to waste, but a wonderful thing to invest in.” Michael L. Lomax,     President and CEO, UNCF. R&D spend (as percentage of operating expenses) $1.3B (63%) 0.0% $1.2B (63%) $1.2B (61%) Products and Customers Total number of installed base chambers (Approximate) 66,000 8% 61,000 56,000 Workplace Gender Representation Percent of employee population identifying as female (Global) 18.6% 5% 17.7% 17.0% Percent of employee population identifying as female (U.S) 21.3% 4% 20.4% 19.5% Percent of new hires identifying as female (Global) 23.9% n/a - -  U.S. Ethnicity White 50.5% - 51.4% - Asian 30.9% - 30.8% - Hispanic or Latino 6.6% - 6.1% - Two or more races 2.2% - 1.9% - Black or African American 2.1% - 1.9% - Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 0.5% - 0.5% - American Indian or Native Alaskan 0.3% - 0.3% - Not stated 6.9% - 7.1% - Employee Engagement, Recruitment, and Retention Employee engagement score (Tech sector benchmark 74) 80 8% 74 -  Total new hires (Global) 2,067 190% 712 1,551 Number of internal promotions 1,626 19% 1,370 -  Total number of training courses 4,700 55% 3,042 1,854 Education reimbursement for U.S. employees $1.65M -2% $1.68M $1.36M2 Business and Governance Number of full-time employees (Approximate) 12,228 14% 10,750 10,950  Revenue1 $10.0B 3.1% $9.7B $11.1B  Performance Area 2020 YOY Change 2019 2018 Employee retention rate 95%3 4% 91% 93%  Average service years 7.7 -4% 8 7.3 Safety      OSHA recordable incident rate 0.25 -24% 0.33 0.29 Risk Management by Walking Around (RMBWA) reviews 170,000 -15% 200,438 191,822 Business and Governance Products and Customers Responsible Supply Chain Our Workplace Sustainable Operations Our Communities Appendix All figures are for calendar year, with the exception of revenue and R&D spend which are presented on a fiscal year basis. 2018 is for fiscal year ending  June 24, 2018; 2019 is for fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. K is defined as thousand, M is defined as million, and B is defined as billion. These data points do not include Silfex, Ohio operations. Retention rate is calculated as the inverse of attrition. We undertook a full inventory of our scope 3 emissions for calendar year 2019. Previous years included emissions from business travel only. Scope 2 emissions market-based (MT CO2e) 75,884 -8% 82,296 64,026 GHG emissions scope 3 (MT CO2e)4 2.9M n/a 23,055 28,968 Scope 2 emissions location-based (MT CO2e) 87,170 4% 83,513 65,137 Volatile organic compounds (Metric tons) 107 n/a - - Waste Hazardous waste diversion rate 20% -33% 30% 28% Non-hazardous waste diversion rate 70% 27% 55% 59% Water Water usage (Million gallons) 292 6% 275 228 Water usage in water-stressed regions (Million gallons) 114 n/a - -  Ultra-pure water usage (Million gallons) 120 n/a n/a - Number of environmental fines 2 200% 0 1 Community Total giving by the Lam Research Foundation 3.6M 6% 3.4M 3.7M COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Fund giving 5.1M n/a - - Employee volunteer hours ~12,000 -10% 13,400 11,321 Employee matching gifts (Thousands) $1.65M 41% $971K 811K Number of charity organizations supported 1,640 -28% 1,936 1,154  Performance Area 2020 YOY Change 2019 2018 Responsible Supply Chain Total number of supplier families 1,459 - - -  Percent of spending on local suppliers (N. America) 49% - - -  Total number of diverse suppliers 25 525% 4 -  Total spending on diverse suppliers $75.5M 123% $34.0M -  Sustainable Operations Energy and Climate Energy consumption (Million kWh) 351 6% 330 254 Percent renewables (U.S.)  30% -6% 32% 33% GHG emissions scopes 1 and 2 market-based (MT CO2e) 113,482 -4% 118,458 91,441 Lam Research Corporation published this report to provide an overview of our company’s products,  services, and operations related to ESG performance. This report covers calendar year 2020, with  some exceptions noted, including financial data that is Lam’s fiscal year (July 1, 2019 to June 28,  2020). The report encompasses our wholly owned subsidiaries across the globe, with some data  limited to particular geographies, which we note throughout the report. We self-declare that this report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard  framework at the Core level. As required, a GRI index at the end of this report shows our alignment  with GRI reporting elements and our material topics. We intend to continue to report annually.  We are also reporting in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  Standard for the Technology and Communications Sector: Semiconductor Industry. This alignment  is detailed in the SASB index.   We have noted any significant changes in scope and boundary throughout the report that may vary  from our 2019 report, published in 2020. External assurance is limited to financial data from the  consolidated financial statements in our 2020 Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K. This ESG report  has been reviewed by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee and the Nominating  and Governance Committee of our Board and has been reviewed and approved by our president  and CEO. For more information about our corporate governance, please reference our Proxy Statement.  Business and Governance Products and Customers Responsible Supply Chain Our Workplace Sustainable Operations Our Communities Appendix Products and Customers Appendix 102-3 Location of headquarters ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 12  For additional information: https://www.lamresearch.com/company/ locations/ 102-4 Location of operations Locations: United States, China, Korea, Austria, India, Japan, Malaysia,  Singapore, Taiwan, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy,  Switzerland, The Netherlands, United Kingdom. 102-5 Ownership and legal form The company’s stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select  MarketSM under the symbol LRCX. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and  services ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 2  ESG Report: Products and Customers – p 17  For additional information: https://www.lamresearch.com/products/ products-overview/ 102-10 Significant changes to the  organization and its supply chain In 2020, Lam began building a technology center in South Korea. In 2020,  Lam opened a new manufacturing facility in Malaysia. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or  approach As a signatory of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Lam  affirms Principle 15 of the 1992 Rio Declaration that states,  “...where there  are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty  shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to  prevent environmental degradation.” 102-13 Membership of associations ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 6  Center for Corporate Innovation, East Bay Foundation, National Association  of Manufacturers, Responsible Business Alliance, SEMI, Semiconductor  Industry Association, Silicon Valley Community Foundation, Silicon Valley  Leadership Group, Tualatin Chamber of Commerce, and Watermark. 102-14 Statement from senior decision- maker ESG Report: CEO Letter - p 1 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and  opportunities ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 5 102-16 Values, principles, standards,   and norms of behavior ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 3  ESG Report: Workplace - p 29 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and  concerns about ethics ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 14 102-6 Markets served Lam is a trusted, collaborative partner to the world’s leading semiconductor  companies. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management  processes 102-31 Review of economic,  environmental, and social topics ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 7 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in  sustainability reporting ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 7 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Critical concerns are elevated to the Board of the Directors by the executive  management team. 102-48 Restatements of information Per guidance in the GHG Protocol, we re-calculated our GHG emissions  for the baseline year 2019 to include the leased offices world-wide. This  resulted in a 6.3% increase in our overall scope 1 and 2 (market-based)  emissions in 2019 from 111,479 MTCO2e to 118,480 MTCO2e. 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting. 102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2020 - December 31, 2020 102-51 Date of most recent report July 2020 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions  regarding the report esg@lamresearch.com Creating an inclusive world involves valuing all perspectives and seeking  insight from a variety of stakeholders. We regularly engage our key  stakeholders in a spirit of collaboration and trust, seeking their feedback  on ESG issues, and considering their perspectives when developing and  managing our ESG objectives. Our engagement with stockholders on  ESG topics continues to grow. It is a standard agenda item for our top  stockholder meetings and in 2020, we met with 15 stockholders holding  approximately 30% of our shares outstanding. To ensure the salience of our ESG strategy, we conduct a materiality  assessment every three to five years, or when notable shifts happen in our  business. In 2018, we conducted a full materiality assessment in accordance  with both SASB and GRI standards. As part of the assessment process,  we reviewed important topics and risks published in our public financial  filings, consulted with senior management and key internal and external  stakeholders, and benchmarked our ESG program according to data  provided by third-party ratings organizations. This assessment identified 13  priority topics which we consolidated into 6 categories, which inform our  key strategies and overall ESG framework. We use this framework to drive  our ESG programs, set our goals, and guide our disclosures. Starting in 2020, we aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB) framework and re-classified any waste sent for waste-to- energy (WTE) as non-recycling. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core  option. 102-55 GRI content index Yes. The GRI content index meets reporting requirements. 102-56 External assurance No. External assurance is limited to our financial data certified in our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K. Lam consistently assesses internal and external risks that must be  managed to support responsible governance and ethics. Based on  the risk assessment, we refine our programs and adjust our annual  plan. Our global expansion includes regions where there are differing  governmental structures, wide-ranging regulatory environments, and  bribery and corruption challenges. It has been a priority to enhance our risk  management program in light of our expansion. We maintain a Code of Ethics that applies to all employees, officers,  and members of the Board of Directors. The Code of Ethics establishes  standards to promote honest and ethical conduct, including the proper  handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal  and professional relationships. The code also establishes expectations  of full, fair, accurate, timely, and clear disclosure in the periodic reports  we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other public  communications. We promptly disclose to the public any amendments to, or  waivers from, any provision of the Code of Ethics to the extent required by  applicable laws. The Ethics Helpline is operated by an independent service and is available  24 hours a day and seven days a week in most regions where Lam  operates. It is accessible through both our external and internal websites  and interpreters are available via phone. The Helpline provides a channel  for employees, suppliers, customers, and other business partners to seek  guidance or report suspected ethical or compliance violations. Concerns  may be reported anonymously, and all reports are treated confidentially. Every time a report of a potential violation is made through the Helpline, we  document it, investigate it, determine appropriate remediation, and make  sure that necessary remedial measures are taken. Reported topics range  from employee relations to conflicts of interest. 207-4 Country-by-country reporting United Kingdom: https://investor.lamresearch.com/static-files/0cf7213b- ce40-493a-b0f1-9e6ed46ada7f We offer a competitive 401(k) benefit, matching 50% of regular pre-tax  contributions and/or regular Roth contributions on the first 6% of eligible  pay that employees contribute to the plan. In 2020, 94% of our employees  participated. Bonus incentives are also part of our benefits package, based  on both individual and company performance. In 2020, 92% of our eligible  employees received bonuses, which included a one-time appreciation  bonus for on-site employees. Stock awards are offered to senior and other selected employees. In 2020,  77% of our employees chose to invest in Lam through our employee stock  purchase plan (ESPP). Employees who work 20 hours or more per week  may contribute up to 15% of their earnings to the ESPP (subject to statutory  limits) and are eligible to purchase shares at a discount of at least 15%. No legal actions and $0 fines as a result of anti-competitive behavior,   anti-trust, and monopoly practices. We hold ourselves accountable for our commitment to mitigating our  environmental impact by setting measurable long-term goals. We use  policies and systems, certifications, assessments and audits, and employee  training and engagement to help us reach these goals. The Corporate Vice  President of Global Quality and EH&S is responsible for our environmental  performance. Since 2013, all Lam manufacturing and R&D sites have been externally  certified to be compliant with ISO International Organization for  Standardization (ISO) 14001 certified, the recognized global standard for  environmental management systems. We have two levels of environmental  review: A significant environmental aspect of our operations is chemical  management, and we take all appropriate measures to keep our chemical  operations safe and legally compliant. Our integrated inventory system  connects real-time inventory to procurement, usage conditions, and  regulatory reporting for our chemical users, handlers, and planners. We  use this system to continuously identify and implement safety controls and  report the use and treatment of chemicals in accordance with government  regulations across our footprint. 307-1 Non-compliance with  environmental laws and regulations In 2020, the global Lam sites had 34 regulatory agency inspections,  including 24 health and safety inspections, and 10 environmental-related  inspections. We received two environmental Notice of Violations (NOVs)  and paid $1,500 fines in total. 103-3 Evaluation of the management  approach ESG Report: Workplace - p 30-35  ESG Report: Supply Chain - p 47-48  ESG Report: Business and Governance - p 7-9 We expect our suppliers to make every effort to reduce impact on the  environment by meeting standards established by applicable environmental  legislation. 401-1 New employee hires and employee  turnover New hires: 2,067  Turnover:  4.7% Lam is not aware of any operations or major direct suppliers in which right  to freedom of association and collective bargaining (to the extent permitted  under local laws) was at risk in 2020. Lam is not aware of any operations or major direct suppliers that were at  significant risk for incidents of child labor in 2020. Lam is not aware of any operations or major direct suppliers that were at  significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor in 2020. Lam respects human rights and is committed to adhering to humane  business practices wherever the company does business, including  complying with laws such as the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the  California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010. 411-1 Incidents of violations involving  rights of indigenous peoples Lam is not aware of any incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous  peoples. Our anti-slavery, child labor, and human trafficking due diligence includes  compliance with the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions  Act (CAATSA), which focuses on the prevention of North Korean forced  labor. We monitor reported political, legal, and financial risks for our top  100 suppliers (representing over 90% of our direct spend) and our top 100  suppliers with operations in high-risk regions for human trafficking. Since 2012, we conduct annual due diligence of our suppliers to determine  the sources of any conflict minerals that may be contained in our products.  We updated our conflict minerals due diligence program to include  responsible sourcing of cobalt in 2019. Human rights clauses are included in terms and conditions for all new  suppliers contracts. Lam values a diverse supply chain and is committed to selecting diverse  suppliers that offer goods and services that meet our company’s standards,  supplier selection criteria, and customer requirements. Promoting a diverse  supplier base is a priority for Lam, and we support a number of industry  and customer initiatives around supplier diversity. Diversity is also included  in our supplier scorecard, and we track and report spending with diverse  direct material suppliers on a quarterly basis. We are using this data to  facilitate a cross-functional approach to supplier diversity. We are a member of the SEMI (formerly Semiconductor Equipment and  Materials International) Manufacturing Ownership Diversity Task Force that  promotes and shares best practices for manufacturing ownership diversity  (more commonly known as “supplier diversity.”) No financial and in-kind political contributions made directly or indirectly. In 2020, there were no substantiated complaints regarding or concerning  material breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Activity Metrics TC-SC-000.A Total production Approximately 5,000 chambers GHG Emissions TC-SC-110a.1  (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions Energy Management TC-SC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed  (2) Percentage grid electricity  (3) Percentage renewable Water Management TC-SC-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn  (2) Total consumed percentage of each  in regions with High or Extremely High  Baseline Water Stress Waste Management TC-SC-150a.1 (1) Amount of hazardous waste from  manufacturing  (2) Percentage recycled Employee Health  and Safety TC-SC-320a.1 Description of efforts to assess,  monitor, and reduce exposure of  employees to human health hazards. TC-SC-000.B  Percentage of production from owned  facilities All process modules are assembled,  tested, and inspected for quality at  Lam facilities. TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term  strategy or plan to manage Scope 1  emissions, emissions reduction targets,  and an analysis of performance against  those targets. TC-SC-320a.2  Total amount of monetary losses as a  result of legal proceedings associated  with employee health and safety  violations Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of  risks associated with the use of critical  materials Product Lifecycle  Management TC-SC-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue  that contain IEC 62474 declarable  substances TC-SC-520a.1:  Total amount of monetary losses as a  result of legal proceedings associated  with anticompetitive behavior  regulations. TC-SC-410a.2  Processor energy efficiency at a  system-level for: (1) servers, (2)  desktops, and (3) laptops TC-SC-330a.1  Percentage of employees that are:  (1) foreign nationals  (2) located offshore ESG Report: Sustainable Operations  - p 54-64  ESG Report: Supply Chain - p 46-49. (1) Not disclosed.  (2) Not disclosed.  Lam Research does not believe this is  a material metric to our business due  to our global footprint. A breakdown  of employees by region and other  material human capital metrics are  available in ESG Report: Business and  Governance - p 12 and ESG Report:  Workforce - p 32-33. Not disclosed.    Lam Research discloses information  on our strategy and product value  chains. We do not believe that  percentage of revenue is a material  metric to disclose. Not Applicable.   Lam Research does not manufacture  servers, desktops, or laptops. Many employees supported the development of Lam’s ESG program and this reporting effort. We  would like to thank them for their ongoing contributions as we continue to integrate ESG into our  corporate culture. If you have questions regarding this report or Lam’s ESG activities, please contact:  ESG@lamresearch.com.