Today’s astounding rate of innovation is driven by  memory and storage solutions that speed processing  of information. As Micron continues to deliver products  that push technological capabilities forward, we are also  fast-tracking progress within our own business. We are  moving swiftly to advance the positive influence that we  have on people and the planet, investing in the best talent,  improving the environmental impact of our operations,  sourcing product inputs responsibly and sharing our  success with our communities. As a company and as  a corporate citizen, Micron is keeping pace with rapid  change — finding more ways to accelerate sustainability  and enrich life. Sparking discovery in science & medicine  Researchers are using high-powered data processing to  find patterns in patient genomes, advancing the search for  cures for diseases like cancer. Accelerating the speed of data insights People of all backgrounds and talents are able to  collaborate any time they want, without needing to travel,  using vast quantities of data flowing through cloud servers  and networks. Neural networks can assess the energy efficiency of a  company’s operations and find ways for businesses to  reduce their environmental impact. Inspiring new consumer experiences Mobile devices are giving people access to the internet —  some for the first time — allowing them to access essential  services and to participate in the global economy. By bringing digital objects into the physical world,  augmented reality and virtual reality are unlocking  new possibilities for self-improvement, entertainment,  education and communication. Driving more intelligence at the edge Self-driving vehicles require massive bandwidth to make  hundreds of calculations per second. Smart vehicles can reduce traffic accidents and ease  congestion, while advanced driver-assistance systems are  helping humans drive more safely and be more aware of  their surroundings. Micron drives   stakeholder value   through enterprisewide  goals and transparency. Never has it been more apparent that a healthy, equitable human  community cannot exist without every organization committing  to the well-being of the world around it. The COVID-19  pandemic and ongoing social injustices have laid bare the  structural weaknesses in social systems worldwide. They have  also presented opportunities for individuals and groups to unite  under a banner of shared responsibility to their communities. It is  this spirit that drives our teams to deepen our commitments and  strike up new collaborations to better the world around us. The importance of those commitments is clearer today than  ever before. The social injustices and inequality that have  persisted in our societies must be faced and eliminated. It  is imperative that businesses play an active role. Micron is  dedicated to using our resources and influence to ensure that  opportunities and freedoms are equal for all. Micron also continues to advance our vision to transform how  the world uses information to enrich life for all. Our solutions  are an essential part of applications that have allowed the world  to work remotely and stay connected during the pandemic. We  have helped drive cost reductions that make these capabilities  available to more people than ever before. We have also led  with power-efficient products that are essential to reducing  data center energy use and related greenhouse gas emissions  worldwide. And transformative new technologies – like  advanced telemedicine and autonomous driving – provide hope  for greater access and equality now and in the years ahead. Of course, our commitment to a better planet starts with our  own actions. In early 2020, we brought our teams together to  set clear and challenging goals that will dramatically improve  the environmental sustainability of our global operations. I am  proud to announce that this report also sets out aspirational  goals that establish an ambitious long-term vision alongside  our commitment to measurable year-to-year progress across  three major categories: We are establishing clear and unambiguous targets to ensure  clarity and transparency. Of course, our sustainability strategy  also entails a focus on sourcing responsibly, supporting  fair labor practices, handling hazardous materials safely,  developing our team and supporting our communities, and you  will find more information on each of these in our report. Our company culture is a core part of this strategy, and I have  never been more excited about the energy and collaboration  I’ve seen among Micron’s teams. While undeniably challenging,  the pandemic has brought a strong sense of team unity, and  our social climate presents an unequalled opportunity for a  monumental shared purpose. I am hopeful that we can build an  enduring spirit of collaboration that drives us all to redouble our  efforts to better our planet and strengthen our communities for  each and every person. I know our teams are up to the task. Thank you for reading our 2020 report. I invite you to provide  feedback about Micron’s sustainability efforts by emailing  sustainability@micron.com. All modern computing hardware depends on  shared underlying technology — semiconductor  memory and storage — to store and access data.  As a leader in the semiconductor industry for  more than 40 years, Micron has taken part in every  stage of this vital technology’s evolution. Advancement in memory and storage solutions sets the pace of technology  development and, therefore, the arrival of breakthroughs that improve our  way of life. A new generation of technologies, from autonomous vehicles to  big data, has the potential to further expand what’s possible for society and  our planet. These technologies depend on ever-greater levels of processing  power. By enabling rapid advancements in memory and storage, Micron is  helping unlock the innovations that will make a better future possible. Micron is an industry leader in innovative memory  and storage solutions. By enabling faster and more  efficient access to data, our products are essential  to technological advancements such as artificial  intelligence, machine learning and autonomous vehicles.  We serve customers with Micron’s innovative products  through a wide range of partnerships with leading  technology companies worldwide. $23.4B  FY19 annual revenue All of us at Micron are upset and deeply disturbed by  recent racial killings of African Americans in the U.S.  and ongoing, deeply rooted social inequalities. It is  completely unacceptable that anyone live in fear. Hate,  racial discrimination, violence and social injustice have  no place in our society. We must not tolerate them in our  neighborhoods, in our communities, or at Micron — we  must not be silent. These cycles cannot remain — we  must find a better way. Fixing endemic injustice and eradicating racism are  responsibilities we must all face together, not just the  African American community. Many of our employees  and others have asked what they can do, and what  Micron can do, to address injustice and inequality. Our  people value compels us to act with empathy when  others in our community are marginalized, hurting or  needing help. Action begins with each of us reflecting and  understanding what we must first change within ourselves.  Voicing support right now is important. It is equally  important that the next steps transform that sadness and  outrage into long-term solutions. A part of the solution is recognizing and addressing our  own biases, challenges and limitations. And while Micron  has been working and continues to work on these issues,  our company, the technology industry and wider society  must do more to eliminate clear and significant inequalities  and injustice. Micron commits to strengthening and adding to our  existing programs and efforts. This commitment includes  supporting our team members; developing a diverse,  equal and inclusive workplace; ensuring that our  workforce has access to unconscious bias training; and  providing our leaders with inclusive leadership coursework  and empowerment. It also includes acting in our wider community by creating  economic opportunities for diverse suppliers, giving to  critically important organizations such as the NAACP  Legal Defense Fund, actively supporting inclusive public  policy, and fostering diverse and inclusive applications of  technology. We commit to holding ourselves accountable  by clearly reporting on our efforts and progress on  addressing our shortcomings and challenges. And there are steps that we all should take. We can learn  more about racial disparities and the need for fair, safe and  effective community policing. We can learn how to be anti- racist, how to be inclusive leaders, and how to confront  the challenges that too many face in our society. We should participate and speak up, learn to have more  constructive conversations, express our concerns, and  ask questions. And we must act to eliminate social Action begins with each of us  reflecting and understanding  what we must first change  within ourselves. bias in our own words and actions — by being allies in  social justice and responding when we see injustice, by  supporting leading organizations on these issues with our  time and philanthropic contributions, and by encouraging  others to do the same. You can read about our efforts on these pages, in our 2019  Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Report and on micron. com. And you can engage with us on these issues at DEI_ Team@micron.com. The COVID-19 pandemic has influenced how  we interact with each other on a daily basis and  shaped new business processes in ways we are  only beginning to understand. With Micron’s global footprint, we benefited from early visibility to the situation  and were a leader in responding, proactively implementing measures to  safeguard our more than 37,000 employees in 18 countries while continuing  operations at all our manufacturing sites globally. We continue to partner closely  with local governments in all regions where we operate to keep our teams safe  and help prevent the spread of the disease. Acting with an abundance of caution, we established early  preventative protocols to reduce the risk of exposure,  including remote work and separate teams to minimize  the number of people working on-site at the same  time, additional cleaning and social distancing. As the  situation escalated, we provided additional assistance  to employees working from home and on-site, including  these measures: ▪ Committing $35 million to help those disproportionately  affected by the pandemic  ▪ Donating personal protective equipment  ▪ Expediting payments to small businesses  ▪ Expediting product shipments for medical equipment While we cannot choose our circumstances, we can  choose our actions. In unprecedented and challenging  times like these, our actions must reflect our values and  the best of who we are as a company — our people, our  resources and our creativity — to help humankind. Up-to-date information about Micron’s global response  to COVID-19 is available on micron.com. Sustainability   Strategy Micron products and technologies benefit society  in myriad ways, and we are mindful of how our  business, operations and sourcing practices affect  our employees, our communities and our planet, as  well as our customers’ sustainability. The execution of this strategy is centered around initiatives that drive  stakeholder value through enterprisewide goals and transparency.  Sustainability at Micron Integrating sustainability into our business is strategically  important, helping Micron to both capitalize on  opportunities and better manage risks. Among other  things, sustainability is a differentiator when recruiting  high-potential employees in a highly competitive  talent market and provides a platform for increasing  engagement, satisfaction and productivity among current  employees. Natural resource conservation and waste  minimization make us a more disciplined and efficient  operation, which can directly enhance our bottom line.  And conducting our business with integrity and in a  socially responsible manner supports our social license  to operate in the communities where we are located. While working to realize these opportunities, we also  are focused on assessing, quantifying and managing  sustainability risks. Climate change, extreme weather  events, global pandemics, natural disasters and carbon  pricing pose risks to our supply chains, operations  and markets. We work to better understand and  address these risks through collaboration among our  sustainability, enterprise risk management, environmental  health and safety and responsible sourcing programs.  Current efforts include improving operational energy  efficiency, reviewing our climate-related risks through scenario analysis and establishing specific goals and  targets. More about how these efforts are being used  to build resilience into our strategy, processes and  decisions can be found in this report’s Enterprise Risk  Management section (below) and Environment chapter.  Additional comprehensive Micron disclosures are  available through our annual CDP (formerly the Carbon  Disclosure Project) questionnaire, which is aligned with  the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD) framework. Our customers are increasingly focused on the  environmental, social and governance performance of  their suppliers, including Micron. Many customers use  sustainability as one of the criteria to evaluate Micron’s  overall performance as part of their own management of  supply chain and reputation risks, looking at transparency,  risk management, environmental and social performance,  responsible sourcing and related topics. Customers  include this information in supplier performance  evaluations and purchasing decisions, alongside quality,  delivery, technology, service and price. Sustainability is a  fully integrated corporate performance metric at Micron. Our sales team executives, account managers and  sustainability leaders work closely with our customers  to share information about our sustainability efforts and  performance, drive action and build trust. Micron has strengthened our partnership with investors  as they focus more on our corporate environmental,  social and governance (ESG) performance. We regularly  discuss these issues in meetings and on calls with  investors, and our ESG disclosures will continue to evolve  based on investor feedback. We have engaged with  the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  to support these efforts, joining the SASB Standards  Advisory Group and issuing Micron’s first sustainability  reporting index aligned with SASB’s semiconductor  industry standard. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) program has  a unified approach to identifying and monitoring risks,  opportunities and responses. Micron’s goal is to integrate  ERM practices companywide to improve decision-making  in governance, strategy, objective-setting and daily  operations. We do this by providing tools and knowledge,  facilitating open global communication and continuously  monitoring and reporting our findings. Our ERM organization accumulates key risk information  from the Executive Risk Committee, which consists of our  key company executives, along with risk assessments  performed by key corporate functions. These results are  regularly presented to the Executive Risk Committee  and Audit Committee and shared with the full board of  directors for consideration. When risks are identified, our risk management team  conducts formal assessments and analysis based on  business intelligence and trends. Risks are classified  into four categories: strategic, operational, internal and  external compliance and financial. In each of these  categories, there is a defined tolerance range, and we  prioritize issues based on the company’s overall risk  exposure. The risk management team then works with  Micron leaders to identify key mitigation activities to  address potential risk. As part of our alignment of ERM  and sustainability, we have incorporated sustainability  risks from our materiality assessment, including climate,  energy and water, into our risk management portfolio. Crisis and business continuity management supports  our ERM program by preparing our critical operations to  respond, recover and restore operations if a disruption  occurs. Business continuity plans are in place for all  critical operations and take an all-hazards approach,  meaning we prepare for a disruption to all elements of our  value chain, including workforce, facilities, information  technology and supply chain. Micron’s sustainability program continues to make  significant strides in transparency and accountability  through a cross-functional sustainability council  composed of senior leaders from across the company, as  well as a dedicated sustainability team. As the following  diagram illustrates, sustainability is managed throughout  the company with oversight extending to the highest level:  the Micron board of directors. Underpinning our sustainability strategy, the work of  our sustainability council, and the topics covered in  this sustainability report are insights from a   materiality assessment. Micron conducts a full materiality assessment  on a three-year cycle (most recently in 2018) and  evaluates priorities annually to ensure that the issues  customers, investors, employees, policymakers,  community members and other stakeholders care  about are reflected in sustainability initiatives, goals  and reporting. (Learn more about our stakeholders  here). Our materiality assessment begins with an  extensive list of sustainability issues that covers all  aspects of our business. Internal and external Micron  stakeholders review this list and then answer two  questions: ▪ What’s most important to Micron’s business?   ▪ What’s most important to you? The results are calculated and plotted on a matrix to  visualize the relationship of the issues most important  to our stakeholders and our business success. We use  this map as a tool to identify those areas where we  have the greatest potential to drive meaningful change  and enhance transparency. Learn more about Micron’s materiality   assessment process. Today’s laws and standards of business conduct are  complex, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  (the Code) is a practical resource that outlines the basic  rules that Micron applies to our business regarding risk,  legal and ethical issues. It also explains the personal  responsibility of all Micron employees to speak up if  they see something that does not seem right. The Code  supports employees, organizations, contractors and  suppliers in conducting business with integrity — with one  another, investors, communities and the marketplace. Micron’s senior vice president of legal affairs and general  counsel serves as our chief compliance officer and is  responsible for ongoing oversight of the Code, which is  available to the public. In addition to the Code, we have  adopted global policies addressing responsible minerals;  the environment, health and safety; human rights; slavery  and human trafficking; and other issues of concern. Pursuant to our global policy framework, global policies  are reviewed and vetted by a policy council composed  of director- and vice president-level executives, initially  approved by a policy committee composed of senior and  executive vice presidents, and finally approved by our  chief executive officer. Employees receive regular online training and certify  annually that they have read, understand and will continue  to comply with the Code. We also provide frequent,  targeted live group and one-on-one training. The Code  and all other global policies, including translations in seven  languages, are available to all employees on our policy  management site. We educate and encourage all employees, vendors and  third parties to speak up to their managers, Micron’s  legal department or a compliance hotline if they see a  suspected violation of our Code. This hotline is third- party operated, available 24/7 and accessible through  all commonly used languages. It provides anonymous  reporting capability and executes protocols designed to  help avoid potential conflicts of interest. Stakeholders, both internal and external, drive our  business success. We take measures to understand our  local impacts and the effect of our operations, supply  chains and products on people, the environment and  society. To do this, we partner with a wide range of  external parties to properly inform the decisions we make. Policymakers Membership in organizations where we operate, such as:  ▪ American Chamber of Commerce in Taipei   ▪ Business Council  ▪ Business Roundtable  ▪ European Automotive Technology Council  ▪ European Research Platform   ▪ Idaho Association of Commerce & Industry   ▪ Italy Industry Trade Association   ▪ Northern Virginia Technology Council   ▪ Silicon Valley Leadership Group   ▪ U.S. Chamber of Commerce   ▪ U.S.-China Business Council  ▪ U.S. Information Technology Office   ▪ U.S.-Taiwan Business Council   ▪ Virginia Manufacturers Association Throughout our global operations, we engage with key  stakeholders based on their material relationship to our  operational success and our potential to affect them  through our operations. This outreach occurs at the local,  subsidiary and corporate levels. Following is a summary  of channels through which we engage with different  stakeholders. Micron’s memory and  storage solutions are at  the core of countless  digital devices. We’re  constantly innovating  to make those solutions  faster and more efficient. As a global leader in memory and storage technology,  Micron plays a vital role in some of today’s most   significant advances, including artificial intelligence,  industrial automation, the internet of things, autonomous  vehicles and cloud computing. And as innovations like  these enter the mainstream and demands for memory and  storage increase, the need to analyze, access and act on  data only grows.  Memory and storage were once standardized hardware  components. Now, diverse demands have led to a  corresponding specialization of solutions, requiring  not just more memory but also new types of intelligent  memory and storage architectures. This change creates  opportunities for us to work with customers to better  understand their needs and create innovative products  that give them unique value. Memory and storage affect the sustainability of a variety of  end products, from computer energy use to vehicle safety.  This is why we strive to consistently improve performance,  investing in research to deliver higher capacity, greater  user privacy and data protection, faster data transfer  rates, lower power consumption, increased energy and The World Economic Forum  welcomed Micron’s Singapore  fab into the Global Lighthouse  Network of advanced  manufacturers “that are  showing leadership in applying  the technologies of the   Fourth Industrial Revolution   to drive operational and  environmental impact.” material efficiency, and improved reliability. Through  supplier engagement, technology development and legal  compliance, we evaluate new materials to ensure the  safety of our employees and the materials in our products. Precision oncology, an emerging approach in  cancer care, involves tailoring treatments to  each patient. The process requires measuring,  visualizing and integrating various levels of clinical  information from symptom expression all the way  down to tumor-level DNA. This generates many  terabytes of data that are highly complex and time- consuming to process. But when treating patients  with advanced diagnoses, every moment counts.  Thanks to Micron’s deep learning accelerators, the  Knight Cancer Institute in Oregon is speeding up its  analytics pipeline — so it can determine and deliver  treatments faster than ever. Micron’s leadership products help mitigate the  growing energy demand of technology. This is why we partner with our customers to deliver memory and storage  solutions that meet tightening requirements and expectations for energy  efficiency. Micron’s System Power Calculator is an online tool that helps  customers estimate memory power requirements when making system  architecture and design decisions. For example, as demand for greater compute and data processing capabilities  on handheld devices grows, it is essential that these devices do not trade  energy efficiency for performance. In early 2020, Micron delivered the world’s  first low-power DDR5 DRAM in mass production, which will meet growing  consumer demand for artificial intelligence and 5G functionality in smartphones.  The LPDDR5 DRAM offers a 50% increase in data access speeds and more  than 20% improved power efficiency compared to previous generations. We work closely with our customers to understand  their needs related to user privacy and data  protection, while also looking at industry trends and  potential vulnerabilities. Specific areas of growth and vulnerability are the internet of things (IoT) and  the industrial internet of things (IIoT). What began as a means of machine-to- machine communication has evolved into a complex network of millions of  connected devices worldwide. As a result of IoT growth, Micron’s innovation focus today includes not only  storage solutions for vast amounts of new data but also security for IoT  devices. The threat of enterprise attacks is far-reaching, given the vulnerability  of embedded systems — which are in everything from factory automation  equipment to automobiles to smart home devices — to cyberattacks. Micron’s innovation focus today  includes not only storage solutions  for vast amounts of new data but  also security for IoT devices. As everyday smart devices become high-risk entry points  for cybercriminals, Micron’s Authenta™ technology  provides a layer of defensive hardware reinforcements  to our existing nonvolatile memory sockets, without  adding new components to the system. This unique  security solution has increased Micron’s value as a  memory provider for IoT and connected devices across  automotive, industrial and consumer markets. The Micron  Authenta Key Management Service is a security-as-a- service platform that allows cloud activation of installed  Authenta flash devices and their management at the edge.  This capability enables platform-hardening and device  protection through the entire lifecycle of our customer solutions, extending from the manufacturing supply chain  to in-field onboarding, upgrades and management. Technologies like Authenta build on Micron’s market  and industry leadership. We are an active member of  the Trusted Computing Group — an industry standards  body that develops and maintains the open standards  and specifications for self-encrypting drives (SEDs) and  other trusted devices. A decade ago, we launched one of  the industry’s first solid-state SEDs intended for mobile  computing and have since developed drives that meet the  rigorous Federal Information Processing Standards. We focus on addressing risks that products may  pose to customers, the environment or society. Experts in Micron’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) organization and  Product Compliance group collaborate to ensure product compliance with  legal and customer requirements related to hazardous substances, such  as the European Union directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain  Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation  and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). Today, these regulations focus on  hazardous materials. Ultimately, they may become part of a broader list of  restricted substances that includes substances known to be hazardous as  well as those with potential to be harmful. Proactive product compliance,  validation and certification processes allow us to deliver new products quickly  while ensuring proper restricted substance control and conformance with  current and future requirements. High-purity chemicals, some with hazardous properties,  are also required in Micron’s manufacturing processes.  See page 38 for more information about how we manage  these substances during manufacturing. Regular reviews of content needs help us to reduce  the environmental impact of our products. Our EHS  organization, Product Compliance group and global  procurement teams work together to ensure that Micron  products and processes meet legal and customer product  compliance requirements. When new substances are  added to relevant regulatory lists, our procurement  team communicates new requirements throughout our  supply chain, reminds suppliers of Micron’s expectations  and applicable documentation, and requires a prompt  response from each supplier regarding its use of any  regulated items. We expect suppliers to monitor the development of  the candidate list for potential inclusions in the REACH  regulation and other applicable control requirements  for restricted substances. All these efforts provide our  customers with the knowledge that we are striving to  provide products that meet quality, technology, service,  delivery and sustainability expectations. Compliance with all applicable trade compliance laws  and regulations is a high priority for Micron management  and our subsidiaries. Micron requires its employees and  representatives to conduct their business with the highest  possible ethical standards and mandates compliance with  export controls, import and customs, economic sanctions  and embargoes, and anti-boycott laws and regulations. Compliance with trade compliance laws and regulations  is vital to protecting the safety and security of the  countries in which Micron operates and to ensuring that  our products, technology and software do not fall into  the hands of entities and persons that seek to do harm.  As a global company, Micron’s commitment to our trade  compliance initiatives ensures seamless support for our  major objectives, key business strategies and delivery of  customer excellence. When we use less energy  and water to operate our  manufacturing facilities,  it’s not just our company  that benefits. Our  customers, communities  and the environment   do too. To understand the environmental impact of our operations,  it is helpful to understand our manufacturing processes.  We manufacture memory chips (or die) at our front-end  facilities (fabs) in Singapore, Taiwan, Japan and the United  States. Using state-of-the-art processes, we add and  subtract specialized materials to silicon wafers to create  our memory and storage solutions. Micron’s manufacturing takes place at the nanoscale  in a cleanroom environment. Each wafer goes through  numerous manufacturing steps, where chemicals and  materials are precisely applied to develop the functionality  of each chip. Airborne particles, temperature and humidity  are tightly controlled to ensure quality as the wafer passes  hundreds of times through up to 10 process areas, each  with a unique set of tools. From the moment a new wafer  enters the fab until all steps are finished, this process  can take more than a month. Once complete, a wafer is  divided into its constituent die, which are then assembled  into numerous customized formats, designed to enable  myriad technologies. This back-end operation takes place  at our facilities in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and China. chemicals. We strive to improve the performance of these  operations through the following practices: As one of the world’s largest semiconductor companies,  Micron is mindful of how our business operations affect  the environment, and we take a proactive approach to  environmental stewardship. To guide us in our efforts, we  convened a cross-functional team in early 2020 to establish  clear long-term environmental goals, increasing our  ambition from the targets we have had in place since 2017.  Micron is now working toward a set of bold aspirations  that will dramatically improve the environmental impact of  our global operations, while staying true to our vision of  enriching the world through technology innovation. We aspire to align our emissions with the target  established by the Paris Agreement to limit planetary  warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius and the United  Nations Sustainable Development Goal 13 on Climate  Action. As part of this, Micron seeks to reduce its  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 40%, compared  to a 2018 base year, and to source 100% of energy  from renewable sources where available. We also aim to  reuse, recycle or restore 100% of the water used in our  operations and send zero waste to landfills. We plan to  spend approximately 2% of capital expenditures on our  environmental programs to support these goals. Achieving these goals is a steep challenge as our business  grows, and much of the technology, global infrastructure  and public policies required are still in early stages of  development. Yet we are committed to making significant  progress, and our strategic roadmap includes interim  targets for the next three and 10 years, to be laid out in our  forthcoming 2020 CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure  Project) and other detailed reporting. Making progress  on energy and emissions targets requires a concerted  effort and collaboration with all of our stakeholders.  For example, Micron is working to co-design next- generation technologies in partnership with our vendors  and to accelerate renewable energy adoption alongside  governments, businesses, environmental organizations  and academia. To support progress toward our climate and  energy goals, Micron recently became a member  of both the Japan Climate Leaders Partnership  (JCLP) and the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance  (REBA). JCLP is a group of businesses that work to  encourage collaboration on climate issues, gather  data and analysis on the intersection of climate  and business, and communicate support for low- carbon energy. REBA is a membership association  for large-scale energy buyers, developers, service  providers, and nongovernmental organization  partners, unlocking the marketplace for energy  consumers to lead a rapid transition to a cleaner,  prosperous, zero-carbon energy future. 1 All environmental data is for calendar years. Data is for calendar year 2019 except where noted. 2019 data  does not include Micron’s former 200mm fabrication facility in Singapore.  2 Reuse/Recycle/Recovery percentage data for 2017, 2018 and 2019 has been restated to differentiate  energy recovery from other material in this category. 3 Wastewater discharge details can be found in the GRI Index, p. 86 4 Excludes energy recovery. Energy consumption in millions of megawatt hours (MWh) Energy savings in thousands of megawatt hours (MWh) Detailed energy consumption & savings figures can be found in the   GRI Index, p. 85. United States 18% 0.8% from refrigerants, vehicles, VOC abatement 4.2M 2.7M 5.7M 5.8M 6.1M 6.7M 2.6M 3.0M 2.8M 3.2M 2020 Sustainability Report  |  32 3.5M China  1%  Malaysia  0.1% Process   GHG Gases Each of our facilities and operating locations   is unique. In the early stages of planning and production, we work to identify opportunities  to reduce our operational impact on the environment and in the communities  where we operate. This analysis requires a blend of global strategy and local  adaptation, which we do in a number of ways: In recent years, we have significantly strengthened our  up-front integration of EHS considerations into facility  design and construction. This includes the adoption  of energy, water and waste efficiency; Leadership in  Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) criteria; and other  considerations that will improve our performance over  time. We have collaborated with engineering consultants  and design firms and conducted a charrette focused on  whole system design to evaluate opportunities to improve  overall efficiency for future operations. In 2019, Micron launched the first Environmental  Sustainability Committee at our Boise  headquarters. Sponsored by the site EHS team,  the committee is made up of volunteers who raise  awareness and engage peers on environmental  sustainability issues, while identifying and acting  on significant environmental impacts at the Boise  site. During 2019, the teams raised awareness  about recycling at home and at work, and a  technical subgroup evaluated GHG abatement  technology to determine preferred options for  high-volume manufacturing. In 2020, we will build  on this success in Boise and other sites, replicating  lessons learned across our facilities. For Earth Day 2019, Micron published blog posts  on our four environmental sustainability pillars  (energy, emissions, water and waste) and invited  employees to share ideas of how we can improve  on these issues as a company. In future years, we  hope to formalize this program and offer awards for  the best ideas. Water is an essential resource in the manufacture   of semiconductors. Each wafer used to make our products goes through a series of cleaning steps,  which depend on ultrapure water to ensure manufacturing process quality. As  semiconductor technologies have become more complex, demand for water  has grown. Therefore, reducing the water we use — and properly treating the  water we do use — are among Micron’s top environmental priorities. Micron proactively manages water consumption by identifying opportunities to  increase water efficiency and reduce raw water demand, supporting the U.N.  Sustainable Development Goal 6 focused on Clean Water and Sanitation. Our  manufacturing sites generate ultrapure water from a combination of recycled  water from our operations and local, untreated water resources. Wastewater  from our operations that is not recycled or otherwise reused on-site is treated to  local standards and discharged. Total water withdrawal in calendar year (CY) 2019 was  over 50 million cubic meters (m3) for our manufacturing  sites. This figure is up from our CY18 use and reflects  increased capacity. While this water consumption  figure is large, our global water recycling initiatives at  manufacturing sites achieved an approximate 50%  recycling rate on average in that same period. We are working toward our aspirational goal of reusing,  recycling or restoring 100% of the water used in our  operations. Actions such as enhancing reuse and  recycling infrastructure and water efficiency management  will help us make progress toward this goal. A key  opportunity for us to increase water recycling is through  capacity expansion projects. Increasingly, we are  incorporating water-saving measures at the design  stage of new buildings and industrial processes at the  same time as we invest resources to improve water use  efficiency at existing factories. Sustainable management of our water footprint begins  with understanding where we obtain water. Globally,  the primary source for water at manufacturing locations  is municipal supply, underscoring the importance of  partnerships with local water authorities. We consider  these relationships within their local context, seeking to  understand the implications of different geographies,  climates, watersheds and infrastructure. We then apply  these assessments to determine the best approach to  water management at each site. A water risk assessment using the World Resources  Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool has helped us better  understand local water conditions. Through this  assessment, we learned that 47% of Micron’s total water  withdrawals are sourced from water-stressed areas,  primarily our manufacturing locations in Singapore, China  and Taiwan. The U.S. and Japan are additional water- stressed areas where we have significant manufacturing capacity. We take a blended approach to water  management in these parts of the world. In addition to  water reclamation systems at our wafer fab facilities,  we have installed rainwater capture infrastructure at our  expanded North Coast fabrication site in Singapore,  and we source 98% of our water from reclaimed and/or  desalination facilities. At our wafer fab in Taoyuan, Taiwan,  we installed a new wastewater reclamation system in 2019  that reduces our annual municipal water consumption by  over 450,000 m3. And in Boise, Idaho, we understand our  potential impact on the aquifer that supplies the majority  of water locally. We were early investors in technology that  allows us to replenish the aquifer and mitigate the effects  of withdrawal. discharges meet all environmental legal requirements is  universal. Each Micron site has invested in significant  water treatment infrastructure to ensure that the quality  of any wastewater leaving the site meets or exceeds  applicable water quality standards. The sites also have  staff responsible for the ongoing operation and routine  maintenance of wastewater systems to ensure proper  performance over time. Wastewater treatment methods  may vary by site but include membrane filtration,  ion-resin adsorption, precipitation, bio-oxidation  and neutralization. We routinely sample wastewater  discharges for conformance to environmental standards.  In CY19, we discharged 39 million m3 of treated  wastewater, with 85% of that discharge sent to publicly  operated treatment works. Hazardous Substances   & Waste Management  The manufacturing processes that transform a  wafer into hundreds of individual die include the use  of chemicals and materials such as acids, bases  and solvents for depositing, patterning, selectively  removing and cleaning. We maintain an active program for continuous reduction of hazardous  chemicals in the manufacturing process. Our objective is to reduce landfill  disposal and identify new recycling opportunities for any waste we produce. Our commitment starts with a rigorous chemical review process that ensures  only approved chemicals reach our facilities. This review prevents banned  or restricted chemicals from reaching our operations and helps us ensure  the proper handling, recycling and disposal of chemicals throughout their  lifecycle. It also allows us to track and understand our chemical use profile for  assessment of chemical reduction and elimination initiatives. Beyond chemical screening, we perform due diligence  on all new waste vendors to make sure their practices  meet applicable legal requirements and safeguard the  surrounding environment. If a waste facility passes this  evaluation, Micron updates the assessment periodically to  ensure the consistent and effective management of waste  materials over time. ▪ Reusing chemicals from production on-site   ▪ Recycling inorganic sludge for construction off-site   ▪ Sending solvents and acids off-site for reuse   ▪ Transferring mixtures of solvents to an off-site  distillation facility for reuse of constituents  Given our dynamic industry, we keep abreast of  any developments that could present new risks or  opportunities related to hazardous substances. We are  committed to reducing chemical consumption and waste  production, as well as to identifying opportunities to increase our waste recycle rate. With our new aspirational  goal to send zero waste to landfill, we are setting our  sights even higher by reviewing our waste streams and  identifying further segregation methods, collaborating  with waste vendors on solutions, optimizing recipes  to reduce chemical waste, and working with business  partners on new reuse and recycling technology. In just  one example, we expect to improve the waste recycling  rate at our Muar, Malaysia, site by 40% and achieve zero  hazardous waste to landfill by working with a partner to  divert treatment plant sludge for use as an alternative raw  material in other industries. Micron also engages our employees in waste reduction.  Employees can earn rewards for participating in our  global wellness program, which includes tips for reducing  waste at home. Employees can also compete to win the  Desirable Trash Award by taking home nonhazardous  scrap material from their workplace that would otherwise  be landfilled or incinerated and upcycling it into new and  beneficial uses. While Micron’s low-power devices support  sustainability and climate change initiatives in  customer supply chains, our manufacturing process  remains an energy- and emissions-intensive one. In 2020, based on the outcomes of a climate risk assessment and science- based target scenario work with third-party firms, Micron set aspirational goals  to reduce GHG emissions from our operations and energy use (scope 1 and 2  emissions) by 40% compared to a CY18 base year. We also aspire to source  100% of our energy from renewable sources where available. We set a year- over-year energy reduction goal in 2016 and transitioned to a multiyear goal in  2017 to achieve at least 10% energy savings (measured in kilowatt hours [kWh]  saved compared to 2016 baseline year energy use) by 2022. Consolidated  savings projects implemented since 2016 have achieved a 4.7% savings  compared to energy use in 2016, and we are on track to reach our target as  we expand our efforts. Overall, our 2019 energy consumption worldwide was  8,564,993 megawatt hours (MWh), including all manufacturing sites. Micron is making progress in energy savings by focusing  on the areas where our potential is greatest, such as new  buildings. We consider sustainable building attributes, such  as Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED),  the world’s top rating system for green buildings, as part of  design. Many of our newest buildings have achieved LEED  Gold status, including our newest wafer fab expansion in  Singapore, our assembly and test facility in Taiwan, and  our site in Vimercate, Italy, and we design and build all new  construction to meet or exceed that standard. Our approach to GHG management begins with  collecting, analyzing and reporting data specific to these  emissions. We report on GHG emissions through CDP,  formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project. CDP is the  primary international organization enabling standardized  environmental data reporting on GHG emissions and  other environmental criteria for companies, cities, states  and regions. In 2019, we received a score of C on CDP’s  climate list and B- on its water security list, and we will  continue to strengthen our performance and disclosures. The semiconductor industry is working to reduce  emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases (F-GHG), a  potent source of emissions that result from manufacturing  processes. Despite years of research into alternatives  for F-GHG, few suitable substitutes exist that would  apply to all uses. We do, however, focus on reduction  of F-GHG emissions through point-of-use abatement  and demonstrate more than a 75% reduction of F-GHG  emissions to achieve the IEEE P1680.1 Standard for  Environmental and Social Responsibility Assessment of  Computers and Displays.  Micron also focuses on reducing our emissions by  upgrading building controls in new construction with  state-of-the-art systems. For an administrative building  in Singapore, updating HVAC systems, adding light  sensors, replacing aging equipment, and installing solar  panels will reduce grid power demand. And as part  of a series of expansions at our facility in Hiroshima,  Japan, we are integrating specialty chillers with waste  heat recovery systems into the new construction, an  improvement that will annually avoid nearly 60,000 metric  tons of CO2 emissions. As we implement programs and targets to support our  aspirational environmental goals over the course of 2020,  we look forward to documenting these and reporting on  our progress. We are one link in an  intricate technology  supply chain that spans  the globe. By accelerating  continuous improvement  and promoting  transparency, we can  drive progress in human  rights and environmental  stewardship across our  industry. Micron manages a complex supply chain that includes  a variety of materials, equipment and services required  to support our operations, from office supplies to highly  specialized design components. With over 9,000 suppliers  in 42 countries in 2019, managing our supply base is  a critical undertaking. And the sourcing environment is  changing, with increasing diversification of locations,  leading to sourcing from new locations less acquainted  with global standards. This situation requires a dedicated team to guide our  supplier evaluation and approval process to ensure new  and existing suppliers meet our expectations, including  those related to social and environmental criteria.  Micron works closely and continuously with suppliers  to assess risk, drive corrective actions and encourage With over 9,000 suppliers  in 42 countries in 2019,  managing our supply base is   a critical undertaking. improvement. By communicating our expectations to  our tier 1 suppliers — those we source from directly  — we strive to have responsible practices replicated  throughout our supply chain. We are an active member of the Responsible Business  Alliance (RBA, formerly the Electronics Industry Citizenship  Coalition). The RBA is composed of leading electronics  industry companies that have joined together to promote  responsible working conditions, ethical business practices  and environmental stewardship globally throughout the  electronics industry supply chain. RBA members adhere  to a common RBA code of conduct, which addresses  supply chain performance expectations for labor,  health and safety, environmental practices, ethics and  management systems. Supply Chain   Risk Assessment  We monitor our global supply network against  global supply events 24/7, review possible supply  risk scenarios against unplanned interruptions and  work with our supply base to improve and lower  their overall risk profiles. Micron’s supply chain risk and resiliency program has global processes,  partners with a best-in-class, third-party risk service provider and has  resources in place that are continually maturing and improving to ensure a  resilient, compliant and sustainable supply chain. Profiling and managing the  relative risks of each of our strategic suppliers allow us to ensure a resilient  supply chain able to support continuous production and product delivery to  our customers, while upholding industry and Micron standards relating to  sustainability. As a check on this process, we maintain a compliance hotline for  the reporting of violations in our supply chain. We also offer a training program  focused on responsibilities and expectations for our suppliers. More than 1,940  supplier representatives participated in this training in 2019. Micron performs a supplier risk assessment that aligns  with our own Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  and the RBA code of conduct. In addition, we expect all  suppliers to be able to provide evidence of compliance  with the following: ▪ An annual RBA self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ)  for a company’s headquarters and all facilities or  Micron’s sourcing compliance assessment (SCA)  ▪ An RBA audit or equivalent for any facility identified as  high-risk  ▪ U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  ▪ U.K. Bribery Act  ▪ California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010  ▪ U.K. Modern Slavery Act of 2015  ▪ An updated conflict minerals reporting template (CMRT)  in case of addition of any new smelter or change of  status of existing smelters  ▪ Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction  of Chemicals (REACH), updated and provided every six  months or as any product change requires  ▪ Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), updated  and provided every 12 months or as any product  change requires  ▪ CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)  ▪ A sustainability/corporate social responsibility or  equivalent report While compliance is an important aspect of a responsible  supply chain, Micron is evolving to reach beyond  compliance and toward greater engagement with  suppliers. We are becoming more proactive with improved  supplier training and collaboration on supplier diversity  and environmental impact. This approach will allow us to  retain more suppliers, creating a competitive advantage  for our business, and raise standards across our industry. Micron Suppliers CY19 5,555 Utilized suppliers 6,150 Supplier sites 80%  Of spend with 125 top suppliers $17.9B  Total spend supporting manufacturing Micron’s sourcing risk and compliance group oversees  supply chain risk management, which includes  environmental, human rights and geopolitical risks.  This team continues to mature its mission of enabling  a resilient, compliant and sustainable global supply  chain, including new and incumbent supplier screening,  assessments, investigations, risk profiling, development  and auditing. Each year, members of the sourcing risk and  compliance group do the following: ▪ Screen and assess: We initially assess suppliers using  inputs from business continuity processes, geographic  location, type of commodity or service, Micron’s history  with the supplier and third-party reviews. We conduct  additional screening for new suppliers.  ▪ Score: We map suppliers at the manufacturing level,  focusing on business continuity planning processes,  ethics, location, forced labor, environment and safety.  We assign an operational risk score that indicates risk  associated with manufacturing or business disruption,  as well as a score that indicates risk associated with  responsibility and compliance. Each score may be  high, medium or low.  ▪ Audit: Suppliers identified as high risk may be   audited in person to ensure they comply with our   code of conduct. ▪ Improve and develop: We may develop a mitigation  plan and request improvement actions of any suppliers  found to be out of compliance or the suppliers may be  removed from the supply base. Micron may establish  corrective action plans, conduct in-person training or  develop scorecard reviews or other plans to improve  suppliers’ risk profiles. We have deep experience interacting with supply  chain partners as both a supplier and a customer,  and we are subject to many of the same auditing  protocols as our own suppliers. All Micron sites have  qualified for RBA platinum recognition, and all sites  that have been audited in the past two years have  achieved perfect audit scores. Micron and our stakeholders support the  advancement of human rights along our value chain. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics aligns with the RBA code of  conduct, which explicitly states that child labor and forced labor are not  permitted in any stage of the business. Factories are regularly audited for  conformance to these standards. Micron actively works to uphold the highest  level of labor ethics in our own operations, and we also expect our suppliers,  contractors and joint venture partners to adhere to our Code, human rights  policy, and child labor and forced labor laws. Our commitment to these concerns is made public  through our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. As  part of our ongoing due diligence in this area, we regularly  conduct supplier risk assessments to understand how  well suppliers address the issues, with specific focus  on operations in areas more at risk for human rights  violations. Beyond these important issues, Micron also  monitors the following human rights concerns as they  relate to our supply chain: This oversight of human rights begins with anyone who  works on a Micron site in any capacity, from security  to construction work. It extends to the employees of  our suppliers and to any person hired temporarily by  suppliers, who in some parts of the world are foreign  migrant workers. Many of Micron’s suppliers are located The best outcomes happen when our industry works  together. The RBA plays a critical role in upholding  a single set of expectations regarding social and  environmental responsibility and a single process  for demonstrating conformance. Through RBA  training materials, monitoring tools and third-party  audits, we support the efforts of our key suppliers to  maintain responsible operations. We also hold them  accountable when they veer off course. To comply  with the RBA code in our own operations, we have  adopted a vigorous management approach that  includes training employees on code requirements  and using third-party auditors to verify our  actions. Our global RBA oversight team includes  representatives from legal, human resources, EHS  and supplier management functions. They monitor  key RBA metrics across all of our manufacturing  locations and review quarterly reports on Micron’s  overall RBA performance. in Asia, where human rights violations against these  workers have been documented. For example, workers  may have their passports withheld or be charged recruiting  or administrative fees before being hired. These fees can  amount to more than several months’ pay and may require  workers to take out loans, effectively forcing them to pay  to have a job. In addition, most of these workers send the  majority of their earnings back to their home countries to  support their families, making the payment of loans and  fees especially burdensome. RBA code requirements limiting forced labor differ from  the laws regarding fees, levies and working hours in  many countries where we do business. While this adds  complexity, we enforce the more stringent standard if local  laws and the RBA code differ. Micron is actively involved,  along with other members of the RBA, in eliminating  forced labor issues in our supply chain through training,  dialogue with government officials and interviews with  foreign migrant workers about their conditions. As we grow our business and respond to evolving  trade pressures around the world, Micron is seeking  suppliers in new locations. One area where we  — and many other technology companies — are  expanding our supply base is in Malaysia, which has  new national leadership and is experiencing a time of  rapid development. Many new players are operating in this country, some  who may not yet be familiar with industry standards  for suppliers such as the RBA code of conduct that  establishes policies related to forced labor, anti- bribery and other key issues. In our years of work with  suppliers around the world, we have learned that it is  easier to communicate our expectations and mitigate  risk up front than to correct issues later. To help new Malaysian suppliers better understand  our expectations, Micron is conducting more in- depth onboarding as well as expanded audits of  these suppliers’ facilities. During these audits, we  have identified and addressed issues related to  working hours, overtime pay and living conditions for  foreign migrant workers. We have also introduced  several local suppliers to the RBA code of conduct,  enabling them to implement policies and procedures  in alignment with it. As we continue to add suppliers  in this part of the world, we are standardizing our  engagement processes for suppliers who may need  extra support and we plan to expand the use of the  RBA code by more suppliers. Responsible   Minerals  Micron has long been a leader in programs to  address and report on conflict minerals. Like many  technology companies, Micron relies on the use of  tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold in the manufacture  of our products. These materials, known as conflict minerals, are abundant in the Democratic  Republic of the Congo (DRC) and surrounding countries, a region that has  endured sustained conflict and human rights violations. However, we recognize  that there are raw materials beyond the four conflict minerals that are subject  to controversy based on social and environmental concerns regarding how  they are obtained. Emerging regulation in the European Union will focus on all  conflict-affected and high-risk areas around the world, not just the DRC. With  this in mind, our program focuses on responsible minerals, encompassing a  broad reach of minerals and geographies. Micron is committed to ensuring that minerals used  in the manufacture of our products do not directly  or indirectly fund violence or human rights abuses in  the DRC or adjoining countries. We have adopted a  goal of sourcing entirely from smelters validated by  third-party audit as conforming with the Responsible  Minerals Initiative (RMI) Responsible Minerals Assurance  Process or similar cross-recognized programs from the  Responsible Jewellery Council or LBMA. To this end,  we seek to align with international due diligence best  practices set forth in the Organisation for Economic  Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence  Guidelines for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from  Conflict-Affected and High Risk Areas and comply with  Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and  Consumer Protection Act, which requires publicly traded  U.S. companies to track, monitor and report annually on  conflict minerals in supply chains. Collaboration among government, industry and  communities is key to achieving conformance in our  supply chain. Reflecting this philosophy, Micron is a  founding member of the RMI, a consortium that works  across the minerals industry to develop a common  approach to address conflict mineral supply chains and  develop future protocols that may expand to include other  minerals. The RMI includes a third-party auditing process,  due diligence tools and a public database documenting  where each smelter stands in its conflict-free journey.  Micron is a member of the RMI’s Smelter Engagement  Team. In 2018, Micron actively supported the expansion  of the industry’s non-battery cobalt reporting program. We  have investigated all potential cobalt use within our entire  supply chain and will report cobalt as applicable when the  RMI’s industry program has fully implemented its cobalt  program in late 2020. Put simply, Micron ensures that our existing suppliers rely  only on smelters and refiners that are conflict-free, and we  only engage with new suppliers that can demonstrate the  same. We maintain a 13-week cycle time for suppliers to  make changes when they fall out of approved status and  often resolve issues sooner. In 2019, our average time to  have a nonconformant smelter removed from our supply  chain was 15 weeks, behind our 13-week target due to  supply chain constraints. Micron also assesses and reviews other rare earth  elements, metals and materials used in its processes  to understand risks related to potential restrictions,  availability, pricing and effects to its manufacturing  processes and products. These reviews often reveal  opportunities for alternative sources from suppliers and  various regions. One emerging issue we are managing  is the use of recycled gold in our products. Recycled  content is growing in importance to our customers, who  are setting new requirements for recycled gold content  and certification by approved agencies. We are working  with suppliers to explore the feasibility of transitioning to  100% recycled gold and with customers to understand  and best address their needs, anticipating that this  effort will provide valuable lessons in circularity for other  commodities in our products. We are committed to transparency and report publicly  on our due diligence and progress toward a conflict-free  supply chain. To learn more, read our annual conflict  minerals report. As an industry leader, Micron has significant  opportunity to partner across our industry to  influence the environmental profile of suppliers. A limited number of equipment manufacturers supply the technologies used in  Micron’s plants and those of our peers. We work to steer the industry toward  innovations that reduce water and energy use. Micron works to influence our supply chain in sustainability efforts, as well as  better understand and address our sustainability-related supply chain risks,  including those related to climate change and other environmental impacts.  The RBA audit process used with our suppliers includes assessment for these  impacts. We also require that suppliers report to CDP and are beginning to  gather data about emissions, targets, risks and opportunities to encourage  action. Key suppliers are asked to either send Micron their CDP submissions  or report a subset of CDP information through a custom spreadsheet. In  2019, we received a score of B- from the CDP for engagement of suppliers on  climate change issues. In addition, all suppliers receive our Supplier Requirements  Standard (previously known as our supplier quality  requirements document), which includes a requirement to  comply with all GHG regulations. In much the same way  as we assess suppliers for other types of risk, we survey  high-risk and critical suppliers’ programs to improve energy  efficiency, reduce GHGs and control, treat and minimize  solid waste, wastewater and air emissions. We evaluate We survey high-risk and critical  suppliers’ programs to improve  energy efficiency, reduce GHGs  and control, treat and minimize  solid waste, wastewater and  air emissions. the results to generate a risk score. Any supplier with a  high risk score or deficiency in a program or process is  engaged for development and improvement plans. Micron  also uses a software system to make it easier to manage  supplier resources and data. This continues to improve the  coverage, resources and processes used to uphold high  expectations for our suppliers. We believe the best innovation comes from diverse  experiences, perspectives and backgrounds,  and this belief extends to our supply chain and  procurement programs. Micron recognizes the role that small and diverse businesses play in helping us  develop and deliver innovative solutions to customers. In FY19, we took several  important steps to strengthen Micron’s supplier diversity program, including  implementing best practices with tracking and reporting, engaging a third-party  supplier diversity leader and innovator, and completing a full data-enrichment  refresh to existing data records. All of Micron’s active U.S. suppliers now have  validated diversity classifications on file. Additionally, we conducted an internal  audit to establish a baseline of our spend with small and diverse businesses  across global procurement. We then embedded supplier diversity in Micron’s  global source-to-pay systems. Our FY20 supplier diversity program initiatives will focus  on supplier development, education and increased  representation of qualified diverse businesses in Micron’s  sourcing events. We are also launching a tier 2 reporting  pilot with a select group of suppliers and asking them  to report their spend with small and diverse businesses.  During the coming year, Micron’s supplier diversity  program aims to drive awareness and opportunity  throughout the supply chain to lay a foundation for future  program maturity and growth. Micron is a member of the Manufacturing Ownership  Diversity SEMI working group. This group, established  in 2019, is developing a common standard to define  supplier diversity within the industry and provide global  best practices. The group aims to generate awareness,  increase the ability of diversely owned companies to win  competitive bids and increase the participation of diverse  suppliers in the semiconductor industry overall. In FY19  1,500+ small and  diverse  suppliers were  represented  in Micron’s  supply base. A thriving workplace  requires focused effort.  Employees are the  backbone of our business,  and we’re doing more  than ever to engage and  support them on their  career journeys. Micron depends on a hardworking, tenacious and highly  educated workforce to design, develop and manufacture  high-quality, cutting-edge memory and storage solutions.  Our employees are located in 18 different countries.  So creating a unified culture across functions and  geographies is essential to realizing Micron’s vision   and mission. 1CY19 does not include Micron’s former 200mm fabrication facility in Singapore. 2017              2018              2019            0.32 0.32 Race/Ethnicity (Overall) We pursue the highest-quality talent in our hiring and  maintain a work environment that enables our employees  to thrive throughout their Micron careers. The first of our  five corporate values, people, reflects our commitment to  employees and our focus on providing an engaging work  environment that is ethical, safe, diverse and inclusive. Retaining the best and brightest in an extremely  competitive industry environment is a strategic  imperative for our business. Our engagement program focuses on soliciting feedback from employees and  then acting on their input. Employees who are engaged at work tend to thrive  professionally, and our performance is better as a result. The Engage! program increases engagement between leaders and their teams  by bringing them together to review, discuss and act on results of a biannual  survey. Engage! is designed to trigger regular conversations about engagement  within teams, create accountability and measure progress. Survey questions prompt employees to indicate their  level of agreement with statements like “My supervisor  provides timely and meaningful recognition” and “At work,  I am respected for who I am.” The participation rate in the  October 2019 survey was 95%, and favorability ratings  have increased since the survey was first conducted.  We exceeded last year’s goal of reaching at least 60%  agreement with the statement, “I find Micron’s culture to  be personally engaging and motivating.” Our target for  2020 is that 80% of employees state that their teams have  developed action plans to improve their results. A new component of Engage! in 2019 was the leadership  engagement index (LEI), a subset of survey questions that  help to gauge direct managers’ abilities to engage their  teams, a metric we are using to measure organizational  success. LEI scores rose eight percentage points over a  six-month period in 2019, which may be attributable to  Micron’s expanded leadership development programs. There is no better endorsement of the benefits of  the Micron experience than a recommendation from  someone you know. So Micron created an online  referral program through which current employees  can share job openings with colleagues and friends.  Employees receive custom URLs to share, and  they earn rewards when positions are filled. Forty- six percent of employees have participated in the  program — and now, 17% of all external hires  originate with a referral. As a multinational company, Micron knows that  real innovation comes from our employees’ distinct  experiences, perspectives and backgrounds. We work diligently to attract the broadest talent pool possible, using both  cutting-edge technologies and inclusive hiring practices. A growing focus on  recruiting from universities and programs that yield high rates of women and  underrepresented races and ethnicities is helping us assemble a workplace  that is rich in many forms of diversity. We also know that diversity can be both  visible and invisible, so we foster a culture of inclusion and equality in which all  employees can grow and thrive. Recognizing that this work has no finish line, we  challenge ourselves to further embed diversity, equality  and inclusion (DEI) into the way we operate. Micron  CEO Sanjay Mehrotra is a vocal advocate for DEI and  a signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion.  To guide our DEI efforts, we have assembled a broad  team of leaders who represent many of Micron’s key  business areas across the globe. This DEI advisory  council ensures all employee voices are represented and  amplified. In 2019, Micron hired our first vice president  of DEI, which allows us to deepen our commitments to  all dimensions of diversity and leverage the strengths  of Micron’s global team. We also increased diversity at  the highest levels by welcoming an additional woman  to the Micron board of directors and nearly doubling the  percentage of women as vice presidents (from 7.7% to  13.5%) in 2019. Micron supports employees directly through the funding  and endorsement of employee resource groups (ERGs).  These groups provide mentorship, networking and  visibility to specific populations within the organization.  Currently, 5,827 Micron employees have joined an ERG,  with more than 47 chapters around the globe. We are making progress on our commitment to increase  representation of women in leadership positions. The  Women Innovate program was launched to increase  female participation in Micron’s patent program, advance  innovation and promote collaboration among female  inventors. This formal women’s sponsorship program pairs  women with senior leaders for increased advocacy and  visibility. In just the first year of this program, Micron has  seen a significant increase in women inventorship. In 2019, we published our second annual DEI report and  a new inclusion video. The report tracks the company’s  progress by examining a variety of factors, including  gender, race/ethnicity, compensation, job roles, flexibility  and philanthropy. It allows us to share achievements such  as reaching increased levels of diversity and creating  transparency and accountability in areas for ongoing  focus. For the first time, we shared intersectional data  on our U.S. employees, showing the breakdown of our  workforce by gender and race. Micron makes many significant investments in our  business, but few are more important than those  we make in employees. We are committed to  providing equal compensation to men and women  in similar roles in all worldwide locations. At the  end of FY19, we invested $830,000 in additional  compensation to ensure a statistically insignificant  difference. We will continue to prioritize salary  parity across our workforce and invest the funds  needed to address any gaps that exist. Proactive efforts to prevent occupational illnesses  and injuries allow us to maintain a safe, healthy and  secure workplace. Our safety vision is straightforward — we strive for an incident-free workplace.  Micron already has a tradition of world-class safety performance, so making  further improvements requires dedicated effort, resources and commitment.  Across our business, Micron is evolving safety to a value so embedded in our  culture that it becomes instinctual. Our new safety culture program, Live Safe,  is a call for all employees to own their personal safety and the safety of others. In addition, we are strengthening safety key performance  indicators (KPIs) and establishing a set of leading  indicators. We have implemented a series of leader-led,  activity-focused KPIs that better measure management  behaviors and engagement for safety, as well as  enhancements to our technical safety program. While our  recordable injury rate of 0.14 in 2019 showed significant  progress over 2018, we expect that the improvements in  measurement and tracking under the Live Safe program  may increase this reported rate in our next reporting cycle,  even as we drive improvements. Micron is an industry leader in the responsible use of  chemicals as part of manufacturing processes and  focuses on protecting our employees through risk  mitigation, controls and employee training. Chemical  hazards are identified early through our rigorous approval  process, and workers who interact with those materials  are made aware of those hazards. Micron also takes a  long-term approach of eliminating the use of high-hazard  materials from the workplace and working across our  industry to develop alternatives with lower risk. Although  these are not regulatory requirements for Micron in most  countries, we view this as a best practice that positions  Micron as an industry leader to ensure the safety of   our employees. Micron’s Live Safe approach drives us to actively  recognize and control occupational hazards. When risks  are identified, Micron removes and mitigates them in our  active facilities and from our business through design  and commercial means, partnering with our suppliers and  vendors. As an example, Micron has implemented process  safety management, a risk-based approach of analyzing  and controlling hazards for the lifecycle of hazardous  chemicals and gases, as a strategy to eliminate and  reduce risk directly tied to our production operations. Creating an injury-free workplace is a minimum  expectation, but it is only one aspect of our efforts to keep  employees safe and healthy at work. Choose Well, Live  Well is an employee wellness program that is an employee  wellness program that combines site level and global  programming. Employees can earn financial wellness  incentives by participating in the programs and measuring  their progress using a wearable wellness tracker. We encourage employees to seek balance between their  work and home lives. We offer flexible work arrangements,  including those for manufacturing employees who define  such arrangements with their managers on a case- by-case basis. Micron follows the RBA’s standards on  working hours, which state that employees in all functions  should work no more than 60 hours per week (which is  typical in some international manufacturing environments),  except in emergency or unusual situations, with at least  one day off every six days. In 2019, we further expanded our family leave benefits  to 12 weeks of paid leave for full-time employees and six  weeks of paid leave for part-time employees to bond with  a biological or adopted child. Employees can request this  leave any time during the 12 months following a child’s  birth or placement. For employees experiencing a death  in their immediate family, we increased paid bereavement  leave to five days to give employees more time to be with  family, manage preparations and accommodate travel  needs. In addition, Micron now offers military differential  pay to offset the difference in pay for eligible employees  who are performing voluntary or involuntary service in the  U.S. uniformed services. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) encourages  Micron employees to have a stake in our success. The  program allows participants to buy Micron stock based  on the beginning or ending stock price in the period,  whichever is lowest, with an additional 15% discount on  that stock price. Employees can enroll in the ESPP twice  a year and contribute up to 10% of their salary. When the  program was introduced, more than 60% of our workforce  opted to participate. Like anyone else, Micron employees face a  range of challenges in their daily lives — not only  related to their careers, but also regarding family,  finances, health and more. We wanted to create  a single resource where employees could seek  information, guidance and resources about any of  these concerns, so we launched the team member  advocate (TMA) program in 2019. The role of TMAs  is to provide an unbiased viewpoint that fosters  problem-solving and empowers employees to reach  their full potential personally and professionally.  TMAs are familiar with Micron programs and  resources and can help employees take appropriate  steps depending on their concerns. We currently  have advocates in our major offices in the U.S.,  Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and Japan. While all conversations with TMAs are confidential,  we categorize the types of concerns that  employees share. This process has revealed the  need for greater mental health and counseling  support for employees. In 2019, we conducted  on-site trainings for both leaders and our general  employee population on mental health awareness  and have set a goal to provide 100 counseling  sessions during FY20. We continue to offer an  assistance program that can help employees with a  range of life’s ups and downs, including emotional  and marital issues, financial and legal matters, and  drug and alcohol dependency problems. Professional  Development  To attract and retain people with exceptional  capabilities, we invest in the ongoing learning  and development of our employees, fostering  a work environment that inspires creativity,  leadership and collaboration. Using a “learn and grow” approach, we create an environment where  employees are inspired to grow, empowered to learn and connected  to resources and opportunities that enable personal growth and  performance. We encourage employees to choose their own development  priorities and take initiative in using resources Micron provides to advance  their personal development. Learning can take many forms. Employees have access  to computer- and web-based training, distance education,  on-site university courses and training on cutting-edge  technologies. A rotational program helps new hires get an  in-depth understanding of their functional teams through  a series of three rotations. Micron employees have direct  access to technical and business skills training through  our internal learning management system and through  systems we access for cultural awareness, personal and  professional skills building and industry-relevant research. In addition, employees can access the Micron-TLP  Technical Journal, an in-house, peer-reviewed archival  journal with articles published by members of the Technical  Leadership Program (TLP), as well as a variety of technical  seminars. Micron’s learning management system allows  employees to view items that have been assigned to them  or search the catalog and self-assign items. Users can  also request or register for instructor-led learning or access  online learning. As employees expand their capabilities  and become qualified for new roles, our internal job  opportunities allow them to grow within the company. Micron resources are also available to help our employees  prepare their educational plans and select programs  that best support their industry interests and career  development. Micron offers a continuing education  program, providing tuition for eligible employees pursuing  higher education degrees, and an education assistance  program for those seeking additional industry-related  courses and certifications. By providing participating  employees with ownership of their learning process,  we foster a productive learning mindset that empowers  them to identify development priorities, find resources to  support their development and intentionally engage in new  experiences in a meaningful way. 50.2 hours Our employees learn from and teach one another through  feedback, coaching and mentoring, which we view as  equally important points on the professional development  continuum. We define feedback as observations of how  employees perform at a specific point in time, coaching  as an exercise in inquiry that helps employees reach  their potential, and mentoring as a sustained, organic  relationship that can help clarify possible new career  paths for employees.  While we do not offer centralized programs around these  types of employee interactions, we are working to build  awareness of the power of these programs and allow  business functions to develop the programs that best  suit them. For example, Micron’s TLP pairs experienced  senior technical leaders with newer employees. The  Micron Women’s Leadership Network offers a variety  of mentoring approaches, such as group, one-on-one  and skills-based mentoring with subject matter experts. We offer a common mentoring playbook that is used  across these programs. That handbook, accessible by  all employees, is available in English, Simplified and  Traditional Chinese, Japanese and Malay. To further support collaboration across teams, Micron  uses the Emergenetics tool, which encourages employees  to actively embrace diversity of thought and behaviors.  After filling out a questionnaire, employees receive an  Emergenetics profile that can be used to gain greater  understanding of one’s actions at work and at home.  Leaders can use their employees’ profile results to  enhance team effectiveness. Since this program was  introduced, more than 13,000 leaders and employees  have received their customized profiles. Teams may also  participate in in-person or e-learning sessions to learn how  to apply profile insights. Micron focuses on building capabilities and accelerating  the success of leaders at key levels in the company.  In 2019, we introduced the Micron leadership attribute  model, which defines the attributes and capabilities that  all leaders need to be successful. We also launched the  Micron Leadership Accelerated ecosystem of experiences  and resources, which is based on this attribute model. It  supports current and emerging leaders at key transition  points during their careers while also providing learning  experiences for continued growth, including feedback,  coaching and mentoring. Resources are designed globally  and delivered locally. Among many online and self-service  offerings, it includes the following key programs: Leadership Conductor  This experience supports leaders of leaders and focuses  on leading self, team and the business. Participants build  a strong network and learn about enterprise thinking and  decision-making with a simulated leadership exercise  customized to their learning objectives. Core Management  This is a mandatory learning experience for new managers  either promoted within or hired into Micron. This program  focuses on managerial and performance fundamentals.  In 2020, nearly 700 leaders will learn about Micron’s  leadership philosophy, behaviors to be successful and  their own leadership styles. Journey to Higher Performance This two-day experiential workshop focuses on elevating  employee and leader performance throughout the year  in concert with the performance management cycle.  It emphasizes communication, feedback, coaching,  objective-setting and performance conversations driven  by values. Ignite Ignite is a five-week program designed for individuals  with the potential to move into people leader roles over  the next 24 months. Ignite enables these employees to  gain exposure to global people leadership expectations  and responsibilities prior to committing to a leadership  career path. We do well by doing more  for others. Micron is  continually reimagining  our giving programs  to align closely with  the priorities of our  employees and accelerate  our impact. For decades, Micron has given back to the communities  where our employees live and work. We’ve strengthened  this relationship between employee, community and  company in recent years by aligning all philanthropic  efforts under Micron Gives. Ultimately, our giving programs revolve around our  corporate value of people. We provide support and tools  to elevate how employees donate time and resources to  their favorite causes. Micron Gives also inspires the next  wave of innovators and educators by supporting and  developing programs to promote science, technology,  engineering and mathematics (STEM) education, with a  focus on underrepresented groups. We also invest in our  communities, alongside our employees, by supporting  charitable causes that address basic human needs. We measure our influence in a number of ways. In  2019, we exceeded our employee volunteer goal of  Communities 150,000 hours. In 2020, we are shifting to a volunteerism  participation goal of 50% to inspire even more employees  to volunteer. The Micron Foundation also matches employees’  donations to qualified charitable organizations, up to an  annual maximum of $2,000 per employee per year and a  companywide maximum of $2 million. These thresholds  more than doubled in 2020 as we joined our global  community in supporting health workers and those affected  by COVID-19 in our various global locations. Micron  Technology and the Micron Foundation also dedicated  $35 million to help those disproportionately affected by  COVID-19. This included the creation of a $10 million  relief fund supported by the Micron Foundation, increased  employee gift matching from $2,000 to $10,000 and a  financial assistance fund for employees affected by the  COVID-19 pandemic funded by Micron and its employees. Impact  Empathy  Opportunity  Discovery  Relevance Inspire Learning Deploy STEM outreach programs and partnerships  to global sites in support of developing the STEM  pipeline for the semiconductor industry, with a focus on  underrepresented groups. Enrich Our Communities Distribute $12.8 million via our global grant program to  support STEM education and basic human needs in the  communities where we operate and continue to support  employee-selected organizations through the Charity of  Choice program. Cultivate Giving Build on the Micron Gives program by achieving a 50%  employee volunteer participation rate and matching  employee donations. Promoting Science &  Engineering Education  To be a global leader in memory and storage  solutions, Micron relies on its talented scientists  and engineers. Cultivating innovators and those  who teach them aligns naturally with how and why  we give back. The Micron Foundation’s STEM grants give educators the resources, training  and tools they need to spark a passion for STEM among students and to  create engaging, hands-on experiences for students themselves. ▪ Our partnership with AI4All, an initial Advancing  Curiosity grant recipient, helps provide summer  programs for high school students from  underrepresented groups, including youth from  families that have lower income, potential first- generation college students and others, with training  in artificial intelligence. The fund is helping AI4All  expand to 11 university sites serving approximately  300 new students.  ▪ With a $150,000 grant from the Micron Foundation,  the Silicon Valley Education Foundation launched  Elevate Math, a summer intervention program  designed to increase math literacy. The grant  supported education of 867 elementary school  students and the development of a new curriculum  for 4th and 5th graders. Through its university relations efforts, Micron Gives  also provides unique, hands-on opportunities for  undergraduate and graduate students in semiconductor- related fields through funding programs that often support  underrepresented groups, such as the diversity and  opportunity fund. The Micron Foundation also works  with educators to support ongoing research efforts and  improve engineering education through gifts that involve  materials or technologies that shape our industry. These worthy programs follow AI4All, the Berkeley Artificial  Intelligence Research Lab and the Stanford Precision  Health and Integrated Diagnostics Center, which are  former Advancing Curiosity grant recipients. Micron Gives is evaluating opportunities to extend its  STEM-focused Advancing Curiosity grant program  to Taiwan to support universities or nonprofit  organizations that are investigating how artificial  intelligence, machine learning and deep learning will  improve our lives and advancing the next wave of AI  for social good. Micron’s citizenship efforts also include helping  meet the basic needs of people in our communities,  from relief supplies for those affected by natural  disasters to meals for the hungry. There is no need more essential than water. Yet too many people worldwide do  not have safe, reliable access to this basic resource. Water is also an important  issue for Micron’s business (see Water Stewardship). With this connection in  mind, we were proud to announce a unique partnership in 2019 that combines  Micron’s philanthropic efforts with our technological expertise. Water.org is a global nonprofit whose mission is to bring water and sanitation  to the world. It does this by partnering with local microfinance institutions in the  regions served, providing small loans to help people put water and sanitation  solutions like taps and toilets in their homes. Once people no longer have to  spend long hours fetching water, they can seek employment outside the home  and eventually repay the loan. Photo credit to Water.org 2020 Sustainability Report  |  79 Every repaid loan can be used to help another family in  need, so identifying partners who will be able to repay  is critical. That’s where Micron comes in. In 2019, the  Micron Foundation made a $125,000 grant that helped  Water.org advance its work around the world and  supply fresh water to at least 10,000 people. In addition,  Micron’s Advanced Computing Solutions team is  applying its deep learning accelerator technology to aid  Water.org in uncovering key financial patterns and other  loan process metrics to better identify loan partners and  recipients. To reduce the potential for bias, insights from  our neural network supplement, rather than replace,  Water.org’s own processes for selecting partners. We’re  excited about the opportunity to put our skills to work  in a way that helps Water.org expand its mission of  transforming lives and livelihoods. Supporting STEM Education and   Meeting Basic Human Needs in 2019  $12.8 million In grants to global communities  1,561  Causes supported via matching gifts programs 5,000 Students and parents inspired by STEM via the Railways  of Popular Science train in Taiwan  40,000+ Students reached through STEM programs globally 102-2  Activities, brands, products and services Sustainability at Micron | About Micron  Micron 2019 Form 10-K Micron.com | Products 102-4 Location of operations Sustainability at Micron | Micron’s Global Footprint Micron 2019 Form 10-K  Micron.com | Locations 102-9 Supply chain Responsible Sourcing Micron 2019 Form 10-K  Micron.com | Supply Chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach The Risk & Resilience program does not currently use the   term precautionary principle, but Micron does recognize it is   our responsibility to endeavor to prevent any harm from our   actions. Micron’s Enterprise Risk Management system puts   controls in place when we know our actions have the potential   to harm. As Micron reviews and creates new corporate policies   in the future, the precautionary principle term may be included. 102-12 External initiatives Specific charters/principles are covered in the relevant section   of this sustainability report by topic.  102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability at Micron | Stakeholder Engagement Responsible Sourcing People Micron.com | Diversity & Inclusion 2019 Diversity, Equality & Inclusion Report Micron’s diversity and inclusion report includes headcount by region,  diversity metrics by gender (in leadership and technical roles), race and  ethnicity in the United States and additional self-reported data   on our our LGBTQ+, disabled, and U.S. veteran populations. Sustainability at Micron | Code of Conduct Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Micron.com | Compliance and Ethics Sustainability at Micron | Code of Conduct Micron.com | Compliance Hotline Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability at Micron | Sustainability Strategy | Sustainability  Governance  Micron 2019 Form 10-K   Micron.com | Corporate Governance 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 8% of Micron’s work force is covered by collective bargaining  agreements. 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes from prior reporting periods. 102-50 Reporting period About This Report This annual report covers Micron’s sustainability performance in fiscal  year 2019 unless otherwise stated. 102-51 Date of most recent report Micron.com | Sustainability Our previous sustainability report was issued in April 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle Micron.com | Sustainability Micron reports our sustainability information annually. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding   the report Sustainability@micron.com  Director of Sustainability 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with   the GRI Standards 102-56 External assurance The sustainability report and GRI disclosures were not subject to  external assurance. Sustainability at Micron | Materiality Assessment   2018 Micron Sustainability Priorities Our report content is informed by our materiality assessment and the  GRI Standards. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and  actions taken All reports made in good faith are investigated thoroughly   and appropriate action is taken in cases that are substantiated.   In FY19, Micron did not record any confirmed incidents of   corruption in employees or business partners. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related   to corruption In FY19, 100% of Micron’s operations were assessed for risks related  for corruption. Zero significant risks were identified. Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics informs employees and  business partners about our compliance protocols to avoid corruption.   This information is communicated to all of Micron’s governance body  members and employees (full-time, part-time and contractors) via the  company intranet and at new employee onboarding. In FY19, 100% of  governance body members and employees in all of Micron’s regions  completed an annual certification to abide by the Code. Micron and   its subsidiaries expect suppliers to adopt and implement the RBA   Code of Conduct and Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  regardless of local business practices or social customs. Micron’s  Supplier Requirements Standard communicates code of conduct  expectations annually through the training and business reviews. Micron 2019 Form 10-K (pages 17-18 and 65-66) In FY19, Micron did not incur monetary losses as a result of legal  proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior regulations. Energy consumptions and savings in megawatt hours (MWh) Information is collected and reported to CDP annually. Data assumptions and calculations are consistent with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas  Inventories, 2006. CY19 data does not include Micron’s former 200mm fabrication facility in Singapore. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 0.000188 MTCO2e (Scope 1+2)/$ revenue  Micron CDP Climate Change Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Environment | Performance at a Glance Environment | Hazardous Substances & Waste Management  In CY19 Micron did not import or export hazardous waste. Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics In FY19 Micron had zero significant fines or nonmonetary actions for  noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Responsible Sourcing  Micron.com | Supplier Expectations  Micron.com | Sourcing Responsibly  Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics As of the end of CY19, Micron screens 100% of all new suppliers (over  725 in CY19) for environmental criteria. Throughout 2019 and earlier,  Micron screened 100% of all new suppliers that directly support  Micron’s manufacturing processes. Responsible Sourcing Micron.com | Supplier Expectations We assess 100% of suppliers that directly support Micron’s  manufacturing for environmental impacts upon onboarding and assess  and score our strategic suppliers annually. In FY19, more than 200  suppliers committed to improvement plans. No suppliers were found  to meet criteria for termination as a result of noncompliance with  environmental issues. 401-1 New employee hires and   employee turnover Micron considers this information to be confidential and therefore does  not publicly disclose it. People | Professional Development  Micron provides global transitional assistance programs for those   team members affected by a reduction in workforce or those who  participated in the 2019 early retirement program. Transitional  assistance includes career guidance, resume writing and access to  career opportunities both regionally and globally.  In 2019, Micron  offered a one-time voluntary retirement program to eligible team  members globally. In FY19, 100% of eligible employees received a performance review.  Eligible employees make up 80% of Micron’s total workforce and are  those with at least three months of performance in the fiscal year, not  including contractors, union workers, fixed-term employees, codice  identificativo di gara, or those who participated in Micron’s voluntary  retirement offering or were separated with a severance package. Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  2019 Diversity, Equality & Inclusion Report  People  Micron reports internally on all allegations, including discrimination. In  CY19, we began to provide this report to the SVP of Human Resources  and CEO monthly, and the board of directors’ audit committee on a  quarterly basis. All allegations of discrimination reported through HR,  compliance, or other channels are fully investigated and documented,  and appropriate actions are taken. Responsible Sourcing  Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  Micron Human Rights Policy  Micron.com | Sourcing Responsibly Responsible Sourcing  Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  Micron Human Rights Policy  Micron.com | Sourcing Responsibly Responsible Sourcing  Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  Micron Human Rights Policy  Micron.com | Slavery and Human Trafficking Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Micron Human Rights Policy We are strongly committed to respecting and protecting human rights  wherever we operate (see Fair Labor Standard in our Code of Conduct.)  In FY19, 100% of Micron’s workforce at manufacturing sites were  educated on our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and   on eliminating forced labor, slavery and human trafficking from   the global supply chain. Communities  Stakeholder Engagement Our publicly available compliance hotline also enables stakeholders to  share issues and concerns. 417-1 Requirements for product and service  information and labeling Micron embeds environmental and regulatory compliance in the product  design process, ensuring our products are aligned to requirements in a  number of different jurisdictions. Suppliers are required to comply with  Micron’s environmental product compliance spec. The spec contains a  list of banned and restricted substances. Solid-state drive product  labels bear multiple safety/emissions/substance marks: CE-EU EMI/ RoHS, FCC — US EMI, VCCI — Japan, BSMI - EMI/RoHS, ICES  — Canada EMI, RCM — AUS/NZ EMI, KC — Korea EMI, Morocco  — Morocco EMI, UL — US/Canada safety, TUV — Germany safety, or  China RoHS. Halogen-free text is included where applicable. WEE  symbol is also included per customer request; however, Micron’s current  obligation is just to notify the customer of material content. Module  product labels bear the CE mark, indicating EMI/RoHS compliance.  RoHS and low halogen compliance is built into the part number. Responsible Sourcing  Micron.com | Sourcing Responsibly  Micron Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  Micron.com | Slavery and Human Trafficking  Micron Human Rights Policy  Micron.com | Supplier Expectations As of the end of CY19 Micron screened 100% of all new suppliers (more  than 725 in CY19) for social criteria. Throughout 2019 and earlier,  Micron screened 100% of all new suppliers that directly support  Micron’s manufacturing processes. Micron.com | Supplier Expectations  Micron.com | Slavery and Human Trafficking  Micron Human Rights Policy We assess 100% of suppliers that directly support Micron’s manufacturing  for social impacts upon onboarding and assess and score our strategic  suppliers annually. In FY19, more than 200 suppliers committed to  improvement plans. No suppliers were found to meet criteria for   termination as a result of noncompliance with social issues. Product & Innovation | Hazardous Substances & Trade Compliance Micron assesses the health and safety impacts and potential for   improvement of all product categories. In FY19, Micron had zero leaks, thefts or losses of customer data and  received zero substantiated complaints from customers, outside parties  or regulatory bodies concerning breaches of customer privacy and  losses of customer data. Percentage of products by  revenue that contain IEC 62474  declarable substances Metric tons (t) CO2-e TC-SC-110a.1 Environment | Performance at a Glance Environment | Energy & GHG Emissions  Micron CDP Climate Change Disclosure Discussion and  analysis TC-SC-110a.2 Environment | Performance at a Glance Environment | Energy & GHG Emissions Environment | Our Sustainability Aspirations  Micron CDP Climate Change Disclosure Cubic meters (m³) Percentage (%) TC-SC-140a.1 Environment | Water Stewardship Micron CDP Water Security Disclosure  GRI Index | 306-1 Water discharge by quality  and destination Million kilograms (kg) Percentage (%) TC-SC-150a.1 Environment | Performance at a Glance Environment | Hazardous Substances & Waste  Management Discussion and  analysis TC-SC-320a.1 Environment| EHS Approach People | Safe, Healthy & Secure Reporting currency TC-SC-320a.2 In FY19, Micron did not incur monetary losses  as a result of legal proceedings associated with  employee health and   safety violations.  People | Safe, Healthy & Secure Percentage (%) TC-SC-330a.1 Micron’s Diversity, Equality and Inclusion Report  includes headcount by region, diversity metrics  by gender (in leadership and technical roles),  race and ethnicity in the United States and  additional self-reported data on our LGBTQ+,  disabled, and U.S. veteran populations.  Percentage of foreign nationals is not disclosed. Discussion and  analysis TC-SC-410a.1 We do not disclose a single percentage defined  by this metric. Our approach to product  hazardous substances can be found in  Products & Innovation | Hazardous Substances. TC-SC-130a.1 GRI Index | 302-1 Energy consumption   within the organization  Micron CDP Climate Change Disclosure Discussion and  analysis TC-SC-410a.2 We do not disclose the single percentage  specified by this metric. Our approach to  product efficiency and data about some of our  recent products can be found in Products &  Innovation | Product Efficiency and Micron 2019  Form 10-K (page 2-4). Discussion and  analysis TC-SC-440a.1 Responsible Sourcing Micron 2019 Form 10-K (page 10) Micron.com | Supply Chain Reporting currency TC-SC-520a.1 In FY19, Micron did not incur monetary losses  as a result of legal proceedings associated with  anti-competitive behavior regulations.   Micron 2019 Form 10-K (pages 17-18 and  65-66) GRI Index | GRI 206-1 Legal actions for  anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and  monopoly practices About This Report Published in June 2020, this report covers Micron Technology, Inc.’s sustainability performance in FY19, unless otherwise stated, and includes all of  Micron’s controlled entities. In addition to this PDF, our full report is available in a web version linked from www.micron.com/sustainability.  Our 2020 sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. GRI is the most widely  accepted global standard for sustainability reporting and allows companies to measure, evaluate and communicate corporate sustainability information in  a consistent and comparable manner. We are also reporting to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Semiconductors Standard. © 2020 Micron Technology, Inc. All rights reserved. Micron, the Micron logo, the Micron symbol and Intelligence Accelerated™ are  trademarks of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Learn more at micron.com/sustainability