Applied Materials is the leader in materials  engineering solutions used to produce virtually  every new chip and advanced display in the  world. Our expertise in modifying materials at  atomic levels and on an industrial scale enables  customers to transform possibilities into  reality. We are driven to Make Possible a Better  Future for everyone. Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services,  and software to the semiconductor, display, and related  industries. Our customers include manufacturers of  semiconductor chips, liquid crystal (LCD) and organic light- emitting diode (OLED) displays, other electronic devices,  solar panels, plus processors of flexible substrates.  Applied Ventures, LLC, is the venture capital arm of  Applied Materials that invests in and collaborates  with startups to transform disruptive possibilities  into reality. Applied Ventures is stage agnostic and  invests up to $50M per year globally. Learn more Note: Any images that depict people unmasked or not socially distant  were taken pre-pandemic. Semiconductor Systems Designing and manufacturing the systems used   to fabricate semiconductor chips. Providing consulting, spare parts, services, and  automation software to improve equipment and fab  operation performance and productivity. Making the products to manufacture LCDs, OLEDs,  and other display technologies and customer- oriented devices, and equipment for processing  flexible substrates. $17.2 billion revenue $2.2  billion R&D investment Over the next decade, digital transformation will have a profound  impact on the global economy and touch almost every aspect of  our lives. Healthcare, research, retail, transportation, education,  manufacturing—almost everything you can imagine will benefit from  amazing new digital tools. As the leader in materials engineering solutions, Applied Materials  innovations are used to produce virtually every chip and advanced  display in the world. That places us in a privileged position to  help shape the future, and we recognize this privilege comes with  tremendous responsibility. This is the drive behind our vision to Make  Possible a Better Future for everyone. To support this vision, we’ve  aligned our company around a bold, aspirational 10-year sustainability  roadmap—1X–100X–10,000X—with aggressive goals to grow our  business responsibly and have a positive social impact. In 2020, the convergence of a global pandemic, social inequities,  geopolitical unrest, and the rising impact of climate change created  unprecedented challenges for all of us. In this most unconventional  year, Applied Materials and our employees around the world  stepped up by demonstrating resilience, persistence, and a strong  commitment to our goals to: ■  Lead with purpose, translating our values into action to respond  to the urgent needs of our customers and suppliers, while also  supporting first responders, emergency-focused nonprofits, and  the most vulnerable populations in our communities.    ■ Invest in people, prioritizing the health and safety of our workers  and their families, while advancing our Culture of Inclusion  through comprehensive leadership and employee training  delivered virtually.   ■ Protect our planet, setting science-based targets, completing our  first full value-chain carbon footprint, and advancing our solar  and wind projects as we transition to 100% renewable power  globally by 2030. ■ Innovate for progress, establishing a Center of Excellence to  drive our ambitious 3x30 goals to improve the efficiency of our  semiconductor manufacturing tools, and a 10-year roadmap  for Supply Chain Certification for Environmental and Social  Sustainability—SuCCESS2030. You’ll learn much more about these initiatives, and meet some of our  passionate, innovative people, in this year’s sustainability report. The  events of 2020 challenged all of us to rethink how we work and live.  At Applied we took important steps forward to emerge stronger, more  resilient, and more committed than ever to Make Possible a Better  Future for everyone. Gary E. Dickerson  President and Chief Executive Officer We take a holistic approach to sustainability that considers our direct  impact and how we run our business (1X), our industry’s impact and that  of our customers and suppliers (100X), and how our technology can be  used to advance sustainability on a global scale (10,000X). Our 1X–100X–10,000X framework is underpinned by aggressive environmental and social  impact goals, outlined at the start of each section, that hold us accountable for progress. through a values-based approach   to innovation, decision-making and   community action. to build a deep-rooted Culture of   Inclusion and foster a diverse and   skilled talent pipeline. by respecting the Earth’s finite resources  while enabling infinite growth in our  business and the data economy. to empower transformative innovation   that improves technology in harmony   with resources. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected nearly  every person, community, business, and  economy in the world since early 2020. Designated as an essential business, we executed a  comprehensive response across all regions in which  we operate, implementing strict safety protocols in our  factories, labs, and logistics centers so we could continue  operating throughout the pandemic. We prioritized the  protection and trust of our employees, customers, suppliers,  partners, and community as we drove key initiatives to  strengthen Applied for the long term. Many of the results reflected in this year’s Sustainability  Report are influenced by the events of 2020. The pandemic  response shifted some of our workforce to work at home,  and corporate travel was curtailed, at the same time we  experienced increased customer demand impacting our on- site manufacturing operations and associated carbon footprint.  Other initiatives, such as environmental health and safety  self-assessments and on-site supplier audits, were more  challenging to execute amid pandemic shutdowns. We have  noted these potential impacts in the data where appropriate. As the world begins to recover from  the pandemic, Applied is committed to  leveraging essential 2020 learnings and  innovative solutions to accelerate progress  against our goals in 2021 and beyond. Applied has a multi-phase plan to return to working on-site,  which takes into consideration factors such as Applied’s  business needs, local government regulations, community  case trends, and recommendations from public health  officials. The plan involves multiple phases that gradually  allow additional workers to return on-site while practicing  social distancing and other safety measures. Our values guide every decision we make  and every action we take to Make Possible  a Better Future for our employees,  customers, partners, and neighbors. We act with intention to create the future to  which we and our communities aspire. In a year filled with multiple urgent challenges, Applied  Materials fully leaned into our core values to guide our  strategies and actions. Our immediate priority is to protect the health and safety of  our workers, customers, and neighboring communities. In  response to the uncertainty and disruptions of the COVID-19  crisis, our business continuity teams directed a comprehensive  response across all the regions where we operate. We worked alongside governments and trade associations  to keep critical facilities operating and minimize global  supply chain disruptions. Together with our employees  and the Applied Materials Foundation we responded to  the immediate humanitarian needs in our communities,  delivering funding, PPE, and other essential donations. Applied continues to drive our leadership agenda. We  increased diversity on our Board of Directors, refreshed our  Standards of Business Conduct, and integrated progress  against our 2030 ESG goals into our Company Scorecard and  factored it into executive compensation. Paused political action  committee giving in Q1 2021 for  formal policy review following  January 6, 2021, insurrection at  U.S. Capitol Applied Materials’ reputation for honesty  and fairness is one of our greatest assets,  reflecting a culture guided by our core  values and overseen by a strong corporate  governance structure. See the Report Annex for additional information on Applied’s  corporate governance structures and policies. Our company-wide Environmental, Social, and Governance  (ESG) strategy integrates sustainability into our operations  and culture, in alignment with our corporate strategy. ESG is  a part of the company’s annual strategic review process with  the CEO and his Executive Team. Work toward our corporate  2030 ESG goals is included in our Corporate Scorecard, and  progress is reviewed quarterly. Progress against the ESG  goals impacts compensation for executives, including our  CEO and his executive team. * Also includes functions covering Human Resources, Culture of Inclusion, Community Affairs, Global Information Services and other functions by invitation. Environmental Health   and Safety (EHS) On a quarterly basis, our Corporate  Governance and Nominating  Committee (CGNC) receives EHS  and Sustainability updates from our  Director of EHS and Sustainability,  as well as more in-depth annual  updates on overall ESG strategy,  covering emissions, energy, water,  waste, health, and safety. All Applied Materials corporate governance documents are publicly available here. Our 2021 Proxy Statement is available here. Environmental, Social,   and Governance (ESG) On a quarterly basis, the CGNC  receives in-person and written  updates from our Director of ESG,  Corporate Sustainability, and  Reporting. The CGNC also reviews  the company’s ESG strategy on a  regular basis. Supply Chain and   Conflict Minerals The Board reviews material supply  chain issues. The Audit Committee  reviews our annual conflict  minerals report filed with the SEC. Our People and Workplace The Board’s Human Resources and  Compensation Committee (HRCC)  oversees corporate culture and  human capital management  programs, including our Culture of  Inclusion practices and initiatives.  Community Engagement Much of our community  engagement and grantmaking  is led by the Applied Materials  Foundation, which has its own  board and is independently  audited on an annual basis. Applied is committed to being a good corporate citizen and a trusted  partner to our customers, suppliers, and shareholders. Each member  of our workforce plays a part in this commitment by conducting their  professional duties with responsibility and integrity, and we expect  our executives and managers to lead by example. To continually reinforce integrity across our culture, Applied maintains  a Global Ethics and Compliance Program with strong leadership and  engagement from senior management. The Board’s Audit Committee is  responsible for overseeing overall program design and implementation,  including mechanisms for reporting potential violations of law or policy  and investigating potential integrity violations by executive officers. The  Audit Committee receives quarterly reports covering investigations,  program development initiatives, and key trends and indicators.  Employee engagement efforts include ethics training and awareness  campaigns, employee ethics surveys, campus fairs, information  tables, and our annual Responsibility and Integrity Week. Applied has  also positioned Compliance Champions throughout our business units  to promote ethics and compliance, intellectual property protection,  and mandatory training completion throughout the organization,  and to serve as trusted local contacts employees can approach with  concerns and questions. See the Report Annex for additional details about our ethics policies  and governance structures. Click here for information on our  mechanisms for reporting ethics concerns. Applied Materials’ Standards of Business Conduct communicate  our values, set expectations for our global workforce and network  of trusted partners, and provide guidance designed to ensure the  highest ethical standards in our interactions with customers, suppliers,  colleagues, communities, and other stakeholders. The Standards  are designed to promote trust in management’s commitment to our  values, empower employees to speak up without fear of retaliation,  and provide comprehensive guidance about risks, laws, policies, and  reporting processes, including in key areas such as conflicts of interest,  bribery, and corruption. In 2020 we began updating our Standards along with our whole  system of associated policies, procedures, controls, and trainings,  tying them closer to our core values and emphasizing relevance and  right-sized response to today’s dynamic risk environment, everywhere  we do business. To enable real-time data analytics and insights on compliance with  our Standards, we maintain a global dashboard for tracking conflict- of-interest disclosures, corporate donation approval requests, and  approvals regarding gifts, meals, entertainment, and travel with  business partners. We are in the process of automating key elements  of our third-party due diligence procedures, and have completed  program maturity assessments to help inform our program roadmap. In early 2021, we expanded our annual global Ethics week into a new event  designed to connect the dots and instill a holistic view of responsibility  across Applied. Conducted virtually due to the pandemic, the week featured  leadership-hosted events that raised awareness of themes, resources, and best  practices supporting our core value of Responsibility and Integrity. Highlights  included a fireside chat in which Applied’s Chief Legal Officer and Chief  Human Resources Officer discussed what responsibility and integrity mean  to them, a podcast on the evolution of compliance with a technology industry  veteran, plus engaging videos and quizzes. Over the course of the week, the  programming attracted over 5,200 viewers and included cross-functional  presenters from across our Ethics and Compliance, Culture of Inclusion, Privacy  and Data Governance, IP Protection, Information Security, Quality, EHS, ESG,  and Supply Chain teams. Applied Materials sets clear expectations  for social responsibility in our supply chain,  requiring our vendors and suppliers to  comply with both our own Standards and the  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of  Conduct. The RBA Code provides standards  related to labor, health and safety, environment,  management systems, and ethics, including  responsible minerals sourcing. To support our employee’s obligations  around ethics and compliance, newly hired  employees are assigned a Standards of  Business Conduct training and certification  course that covers our policies on conflicts  of interest, intellectual property protection,  anti-corruption, gifts, insider trading, supplier  selection and treatment, speaking up, and  non-retaliation. Employees renew their  training and certification to the Standards  each year. Employees also have access to ongoing  training in specific areas of ethics and  compliance. In 2020, those included: Applied Materials participates in efforts  to inform policymakers about issues and  challenges critical to our company, our  customers, and our end users, typically via  meetings, hearings, and trade association  advocacy efforts. In 2020, the majority of  these efforts centered on issues related to  COVID-19 and international trade. In the early months of the pandemic, efforts  centered on assuring the continued operation  of our manufacturing sites in California,  Massachusetts, Montana, and Texas. Our  Government Affairs function worked with trade  associations and government agencies in these  states to secure essential worker designation  for our employees. At the same time, they  worked with U.S. government officials to  secure essential worker designation for critical  suppliers in their home countries to ensure  continuity in our global supply chain. Later, as  vaccines became available, Government Affairs  worked with states and localities to understand  vaccination requirements to assure our workers  had timely access. Throughout 2020 and into 2021,  Government Affairs devoted significant  focus to international trade, particularly  the strained U.S.-China trade relationship.  Engaging the U.S. government, Government  Affairs advocated for policies that would  allow the company to remain competitive  in global markets while achieving U.S.  policy interests. In addition to the year’s  pressing issues, we continue to advance  policy changes in areas such as corporate  tax, international competition, technology  regulation, R&D, human resources and labor,  and sustainability. These include advocating  for immigration reform that embraces the  valuable role of immigrants in the U.S.  economy; advocating for fairness, diversity,  and inclusion, including LGBTQ rights; and  working on policies, partnerships, and R&D  incentives to develop and advance next- generation technologies. In 2020, Applied sponsored well-received  virtual town halls with Texas’s Democratic and  Republican candidates for the U.S. Senate, to  encourage our employee’s participation in the  political process. Applied Materials belongs to various business and trade  associations representing issues that align with our corporate  strategy and the needs of our company, industry, employees,  and communities. Our membership in a group does not imply  that we endorse the entirety of that group’s policy positions. In 2020, Applied paid approximately $535,000 in trade  association membership dues, 16% of which was specified  by the associations as non-deductible lobbying expenditures.  This total does not include conference or event sponsorships,  programming activities, or similar costs. Applied Materials  reports on federal lobbying through the Lobbying Disclosure  Act Database. We file periodic reports with federal and state  agencies as appropriate. Our U.S. Trade and Business Associations membership list  can be found here. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political  parties, candidates, and related institutions by Applied Materials $0 $0 $10,000 The Applied Materials, Inc. Political Action Committee (AMPAC) contributes to federal candidates and political action  committees or party committees supporting issues of strategic importance to the company, consistent with all legal requirements.  Our State Contributions Committee oversees corporate political spending to advance those issues at the state and local levels.  Contributions are based solely on corporate objectives, without regard for committee members’ private political preferences. During 2020, political contributions made by AMPAC totaled $53,500. Following the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on January 6,  2021, AMPAC paused all political giving in Q1 2021.     See the Report Annex for additional details on Applied’s political donation policies, mechanisms, and compliance practices. Applied Materials considers data security one of our top  strategic priorities. In a threat landscape marked by growing  vulnerabilities, readily available hacking tools, the rise  of business disruption attacks, and incursions by state- sponsored actors, we desire to be a safe data choice for all  our global stakeholders. Recognizing that cyber-attacks long ago moved from being  a matter of if to when, we maintain both a robust defense  framework and the capacity for rapid detection and response.  We conduct 24/7 monitoring and weekly vulnerability  assessments and continuously update our mitigation  practices to stay ahead of threats. Among other efforts, we: Our efforts extend across our supply chain via enhanced  security controls embedded in the supplier onboarding  process, processes for assessing supply chain cyber- breaches and ransomware incidents, a playbook for  restoring business continuity, and continuous assessment  and control enhancement of high-impact suppliers. To  enhance customer trust, we provide virus-free certifications  with all sales of Applied semiconductor systems. Applied Materials has undergone a NIST Cybersecurity  Framework assessment and currently maintains one of the best  BitSight security scores among our industry peers. We’ve also  achieved ISO 27001 certification for information security at 45  of our business sites, assuring our data security management  systems and programs align with global best practices. Our Chief Information Security Officer reports at least  quarterly to the Board’s Audit Committee on our data and IP  security programs, policies, controls, key risks, and notable  incidents. Applied Materials takes data security very seriously  and continues to devote substantial resources to it. In a typical year, Applied Materials and the Applied Materials Foundation fund  nonprofits working in our focus areas of Education, Civic Engagement, Arts and  Culture, and the Environment, as well as the Generation GirlTM initiative, the  Foundation’s signature girls empowerment program. But as COVID-19 began  its worldwide spread, we pivoted quickly, engaging with outside organizations,  listening to their ideas for serving their communities during the crisis, and making  additional COVID-specific funding available for community service agencies. To  give organizations flexibility, we converted many program-related grants into  general operating support — for instance, helping Arts and Culture grantees  transform their facilities into COVID testing or food distribution sites. We  enthusiastically approved other programs’ transition from in-person to virtual  settings, as our partners sought creative ways to engage with local communities. In total, Applied Materials and the Foundation awarded more than $14  million in direct corporate contributions and Foundation grants in 2020,  benefiting 310 recipients in nine countries—a 38% increase over our 2019  total. At the same time, our employees donated their time to create personal  protective equipment (PPE) and other essentials for frontline workers and  boosted their individual charitable contributions, which we amplified by large  increases in the Foundation’s matching grant program. Helping the communities where we live and work is about  building and leveraging trusted partnerships, and that was  never more true than in 2020. Contributions include both Foundation and Company giving, which is further detailed in the Social Data section of the Annex under  Community Impact. Arts and Culture  $1,251,273  8.40% Civic Development  $2,640,392  17.70% Disaster Response  $2,746,766  18.40% Education  $2,893,768  19.40% Employee Matching Gift  $3,729,244  25.00% Environment  $586,461  3.90% Girls Empowerment  $1,072,135  7.20% Around the world, Applied Materials, the Applied Materials  Foundation, and our 24,000 employees stepped up to help  those most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. To meet  urgent health needs, we delivered face masks and blood  analysis systems to frontline medical personnel in the  U.S., Europe, and China; shipped cases of individual hand  sanitizers to homeless shelters and programs serving isolated  seniors; and provided a grant to Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders) to support relief efforts around  the globe. In the face of growing need, we increased our  support to food banks across the U.S., and in Korea we  helped ensure disadvantaged children and their families  gained access to nutritious meals and personal   protective equipment. Though largely dispersed to their home offices, Applied’s  employees continued donating their time, talent, and  financial resources to the relief effort. At our manufacturing  sites in Austin, TX, Kalispell, MT, and Singapore, enterprising engineers used 3D printers to create face shields and  touchless door handles for hospitals and other responding  organizations in their communities. In Austin, employees  sewed masks for Meals on Wheels volunteers. In India, our  design teams created open-source designs for low-cost  medical gear. To support our employees in contributing  to COVID-19 relief efforts and other  preferred charities, the Foundation  increased its our annual employee giving  match from $3,000 to $5,000 between  March and December 2020. Sustainability Report 2020 In recent years, Applied Materials has expanded and aligned  our efforts to address food insecurity in many of our global  locations and communities—a timely move, as the pandemic- related economic downturn of 2020 left people around the  world more reliant on food aid than ever before. As part of our month-long virtual North America campaign in  November and December 2020, we transformed our year-end  all-employee meeting into a virtual telethon for Fight Against  Hunger. With donations matched dollar-for-dollar by the  Applied Materials Foundation (plus an additional $500,000  match to help food banks respond to COVID impacts), the  campaign raised $4 million, a 70% increase over 2019. This  funding provided vital support for 50 nonprofit organizations  across the U.S. and Canada as they worked to manage  dramatically increased demand. Global Fight Against Hunger efforts continued throughout  the year, often aligned with cultural and seasonal holidays  in different countries. In Israel and China, employees  volunteered with local organizations to package food for  distribution in their communities. Meanwhile, employees  in India and Taiwan raised funds to provide access to food  for those in need. All these efforts reflect Applied’s values  and purpose, aligning who we are with what matters to our  employees and what’s needed in our communities. Cho Wang lives Applied Materials’ vision to Make Possible a Better Future for everyone. “In technology, the development is endless. What we  do—what the equipment does—it makes things possible.  For someone like me, who doesn’t think anything is  impossible, being able to be part of this and help drive  the industry is what drew me to Applied,” said Cho. Cho applies this same art-of-the-possible mindset to  all aspects of his life, engaging in activities where he  can rapid-prototype to solve challenges. In his first few  months at Applied, Cho got involved with the Austin  chapter of the Young Professionals Network, an Applied  Employee Resource Group. Seeing an opportunity to  make the group more active, inclusive, and engaging,  Cho raised his hand for a leadership position and was  appointed president. Within the first few months under Cho’s leadership,  the group had quadrupled participation in its monthly  events. When the pandemic halted in-person gatherings,  Cho and the other YPN leaders found new and creative  ways to inspire engagement, including supporting the  local community. This year, the Austin-based YPN raised  over $12,000 through a food drive, which was doubled  to $24,000 through the Foundation’s donation match  program. The group also supported efforts to help end  youth homelessness; donated blankets to LifeWorks, a  local nongovernmental organization supporting social  and mental health services for teens and their families;  and supported a local animal shelter. In a year that turned a spotlight on diversity and  empowerment and saw the election of the United States’ first  female vice president, the Applied Materials Foundation’s  Generation GirlTM initiative continued its efforts to ensure  that all girls have the opportunity to reach their potential. The Generation GirlTM initiative works with nonprofit  organizations throughout the United States to help girls  gain the confidence, skills, and opportunities to succeed in  any path they choose. In recognition of the fact that women  of color remain the tech industry’s most underrepresented  group, the program prioritizes funding for organizations  serving Black/African American, Latinx/Hispanic,  and Indigenous girls as well as girls from low-income  backgrounds. By working to break down societal and systemic  barriers and develop talent in underrepresented communities,  we can help make our future workplaces more vibrant,  equitable, and effective. The onset of COVID-19 precipitated significant shifts in our  grantees’ programming, varying as time went on. Between  September 2019 and August 2020, our grantees were still  able to serve more than 10,000 girls, 61% of whom identify  as Black, Latinx, or Indigenous and 61% of whom come from  low-income backgrounds. While spring and summer programs  mostly moved virtual, they continued to have a profound  impact on the girls they served, with 76% of surveyed respondents reporting positive levels of self-confidence and  78% indicating increased interest and competence in STEM  subjects. Applied’s Community of Practice, where grantees  convene virtually on a bimonthly basis, proved invaluable  during this time of instability, with 82% of grantees reporting  that the collaborations through the Generation GirlTM initiative  strengthened their programs to a great extent. From Fall 2020 through Spring 2021, the Generation GirlTM  initiative continued supporting girls’ empowerment by  providing over $1.1 million to 35 organizations located across  six U.S. regions where Applied maintains facilities. With this  funding, grantees were able to provide girls’ programming  that fostered learning, connection, and support through  virtual after-school and summer programming as well  as in-person learning when possible. To ensure girls and  their families felt supported and empowered during the  pandemic, grantees expanded beyond their normal activities  by providing home activity kits focused on STEM and social  justice activism, creating safe virtual spaces for girls to be  in community (e.g., online music listening sessions), and  connecting girls and their caregivers to local community  service agencies to address need. Employee volunteerism also went virtual in 2020, with our  employees dedicating their time and talents by serving as  volunteer mentors, conducting virtual career exploration  sessions with girls, and leading online activities to introduce  girls to semiconductor wafers and careers in tech. A complete list of 2020 Generation GirlTM initiative grantees  is available here. Hearing us, seeing us, talking  about science as female role  models helps young girls  envision themselves doing that. COVID-19 has been a forceful reminder of our  interconnectedness as people and as a planet, but it has  also impacted our ability to conduct many of our traditional  environmentally focused efforts, including projects that  engage communities with the natural world and help build a  more sustainable future. In FY2020, Applied Materials and the Foundation awarded  $586,461 in grants to 37 nonprofits, working with grantees  as they took youth education and other outreach efforts  virtual and found new ways to leverage their unique  resources to serve the local community. In East San Jose,  California, Veggielution marshaled its expertise as a  community farm to distribute healthy and nutritious food to  community members experiencing food insecurity. While  the program began as a direct response to the COVID-19  pandemic, it has quickly become a central strategy for  Veggielution to connect people from diverse backgrounds  through food and farming. In Gloucester, Massachusetts,  Backyard Growers sent growing kits home to students so  they could continue gardening experiments connected to  the science curriculum. Backyard Growers also replanted  their school gardens to feature quick-growing items that  could be donated to families to supplement healthy home  meals. Other community gardens were repurposed to  support local food banks and shelters. Applied’s annual, monthlong EarthWorks campaign went  virtual in April 2020, educating and inspiring Applied’s global  employees to learn about household sustainability strategies,  discover ways to reduce their carbon footprint, and generally  make their communities healthier and more sustainable.  The virtual format enabled employees to engage across  worldwide sites, sharing tips for home gardening and making  upcycled crafts as well as photos of themselves enjoying  the great outdoors. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of  Earth Day on April 22, we encouraged our employees to post  photos of themselves wearing green on our internal social  media channel, Applied4You. Creativity drives new ideas that can transform the way we live.  In FY2020, Applied Materials and the Foundation continued  to support culturally diverse programming in the visual and  performing arts, awarding $1.3 million in grants to 62 non- profits. In a challenging year, our grantees demonstrated  resilience and creativity by pivoting to new streaming and on- demand models for delivering their programming to audiences.  Cape Ann Art Haven blended traditional art making with digital  tools and video instruction to provide creative programming to  school children in Gloucester, Massachusetts, while San Jose  Jazz presented “Live from Home,” a series of performances  streamed from musicians’ homes. Education inspires young minds, opens new doors, and  paves the way to more promising futures. In 2020, Applied  Materials and the Foundation invested in efforts to increase  access to high-quality education globally even in the midst  of an unprecedented pandemic. Examples include supporting  the Discovery Center of Idaho in providing interactive and  virtual content to ignite student interest in STEM, and funding  the Library Project to improve children’s literacy through the  creation of reading rooms and the training of teachers and  families in rural China. inspire. connect. give. http://earthworks 2021 We foster a culture where every person  knows they belong, feels empowered  to bring their whole self to work, and is  inspired to grow. In 2020, issues of racial and gender inequity were   intensified, with women and people of color disproportionately  hit hard by the economic impacts of the COVID-19  pandemic. In the U.S., the murder of George Floyd and  anti-Asian racism forced a collective social reckoning  with systemic racism–in the criminal justice system, our  communities, and beyond. Amid these complex social challenges, we continued to implement our multi- year strategic imperative to foster a meaningful Culture of Inclusion that  accomplishes many goals, including addressing systemic race and gender  barriers and helping us become the destination employer in our industry. As one  step in that effort, we implemented new tools to expand our sourcing of diverse  talent and to guide our managers in eliminating bias from our hiring process. We doubled down on our holistic approach to employee development and  training across the board, transforming to new virtual alternatives where  necessary and in the process achieving our highest-ever participation in  inclusion training and personal engagement, from top executive leadership  through all employee levels. Our unwavering commitment to improvement  earned us a #14 spot on the 2021 Training Magazine Top 100 rankings. Protecting the health, safety, and wellbeing of our employees is always our top  priority, and 2020 brought new challenges that impacted both personal and  professional wellness. In addition to implementing enhanced COVID-19 safety  protocols for our essential on-site workers and supporting the productivity and  safety of our remote workforce, we offered a range of virtual services to help  address our employees’ physical, mental, and emotional wellness at home. Goal Progress U.N. Increase women’s representation  at Applied globally Increased to 17.8% Increase underrepresented minorities’  representation in our U.S. workforce Increased to 14.2% Maintain occupational health and safety total  case incident rate (TCIR) at 0.46 or below We met this target, achieving a TCIR of 0.33 Increase women’s representation at  Applied in U.S. to 21% by 2021 Increased to 20.2% Continued to increase female  representation in U.S. workforce Ranked as Top Veteran-Friendly  Company by U.S. Veterans  Magazine At Applied Materials, we value a Culture of  Inclusion (COI) based on diversity, equity, and  belonging. We celebrate different backgrounds,  perspectives, and experiences, knowing they  help build stronger, more resilient teams. And  we know those teams, powered by their talents  and capabilities, are what will drive Applied  Materials toward greater innovation and  financial performance. Our strategy drives a multi-year roadmap, which contains  actions to engage leaders as champions for change and  sets us on the path to identifying and eliminating systemic  barriers to inclusion and operationalizing inclusion in  everything we do. In 2020, our CEO, Gary Dickerson, signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge  and the Catalyst CEO Champions for Change pledge, publicly committing Applied Materials  to advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace. For more than 20 years, Karen Courter had centered her career  around supply chain, logistics, and materials management, most  recently managing a large team supporting Applied’s global contact  centers. But it was during a recent Culture of Inclusion Summit at  Applied that Karen found a whole new calling. “I have two daughters  and two sons. Diversity and inclusion is very personal to me,” said  Karen, a native of Brazil now living in Texas. “I want all my kids to  have a future living in a world and working in a company that lets  people succeed while being their authentic selves.” In April 2021,  Karen became the Human Resources Executive Partner for HR at  Applied. To Karen, the willingness to let employees explore new  passions and to look beyond a resume to see the whole person  and the value she or he brings are just two of the many things she  appreciates about the culture at Applied Materials. “The company  welcomes people the way they are,” she said. “I feel like I matter— that I belong. I can bring my full self.” We also saw a decrease in voluntary turnover among female employees between 2019 and 2020 (-2.0 pp  global), contributing to an improvement in gender diversity. Overall voluntary turnover in FY20 (4.6%)  continued to remain below the company’s target of 5% or less. Since 2019, women’s representation in our U.S. workforce has increased to above 20%, with global  representation at 17.8%. Additionally women’s representation in our global engineering staff has increased to  13.2%, with U.S. representation at 12.9%. Over the past four years, Applied Materials has focused on strengthening our strategies for retaining  and recruiting diverse talent and designing a fully actualized Culture of Inclusion to the benefit of all our  employees. During 2020, we made significant progress in strengthening our COI strategy and targets, training  commitments, and data disclosure. This year’s report includes expanded data on gender representation and  global voluntary turnover. Our 2020 data shows five-year increasing trends in: ■ Women’s representation (+1.2 percentage points (pp) global, +2.2 pp U.S.)   ■ Women’s representation at the executive (+0.3 pp), manager (+5.1 pp), and professional (+2.8 pp) levels   ■ Underrepresented minority representation at all levels (+2.4 pp U.S.)   ■ Black representation at the manager level (+1.1 pp U.S.)    ■ Women in engineering (+1.8 pp global, +2.1 pp U.S.) FY2020 U.S. Workforce Gender, Ethnicity, and Race Representation by Employee Level 2.8%  26.9% 12.4% 24.1% 17.5% 11.6% 11.3% 4.8% 4.2%  44.8% 40.6% 40.5% 1.0% 2.0% 0.8% 55.6% 34.4% 29.0% 45.3% 0.9% 2.1% 0.8% 50.6% 0.2%  4.2% 2.9% 2.7% 3.1% 0.1% 0.6%  6.4% 5.3% 7.0% 7.2% 0.0% 0.5%  2.0% 1.1% 5.0% 5.6%  48.9% 43.3% 51.9% 61.7% 10.8% 20.2% 19.5% 19.3% 18.8% 18.0% 15.7% 15.6% 14.8% 14.5% 14.6% 15.4% 14.9% 15.5% 11.4% Women 11.6% 11.7% Global Women 12.2% 12.2% 12.4% 16.7% 16.5% 12.7% 12.9% 13.2% Our Women in Engineering Talent Development Program (WE  TDP) is focused on supporting the career growth of female  technical talent at Applied. This two-year development program  offers resources to support a select group of high-potential U.S.  women employees through networking opportunities, conference  participation, professional skill development workshops, career  development roundtables, and mentoring programs. Women are  nominated by their managers annually. Fifty-nine new members  joined WE TDP in 2020. More than half of WE TDP alumni and  year-two members have been promoted. In 2020 and early 2021, we introduced several executive-level initiatives to drive accountability and support our leaders in   their COI education and mission. ■ Driving accountability and inspiration through  experiential learning: In September 2020, 27 leaders  (including executive team) took part in a six-hour  experiential learning session titled “Leading Courageously  on Issues of Race and Racial Equity,” focused on making  inclusion personal and learning to understand inclusion  challenges before trying to fix them. ■ Tying performance to executive compensation:  To reinforce accountability, we added our diversity  commitments as an objective on the Corporate  Scorecard that informs determination of executive  bonuses, tying executive compensation directly to the  achievement of our diversity objectives. Progress is shared on a quarterly basis with our Board of  Directors. Over the past several years our Board itself has  grown more diverse, and now consists of 40% women and  30% people of color. ■ Using dashboards to expose market availability gaps:  In 2020, we introduced U.S. diversity dashboards  through which executive leaders can track progress  against diversity goals for each organization. ■ Introducing the Inclusive Leader Action Guide: In  early 2021, we created a comprehensive action guide  for executive staff and leadership teams that provides  pragmatic strategies and best practices for becoming  more inclusive leaders, partners, and change catalysts. Applied Materials is consistently recognized  for our efforts around workforce diversity and  military veteran recruitment. Military Friendly Employer   100%-plus overall rating, exceeds every standard  U.S. Veterans Magazine   Top Veteran-Friendly Company  Woman Engineer Magazine   Top 50 Employers In 2020, Applied Materials employees came together in a  series of mostly virtual events, including opt-in inclusion  learning sessions and events recognizing the cultural heritage  and diverse experiences of our workforce. These corporate-wide learning opportunities were presented  in partnership with our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs),  which represent a range of diverse employees within Applied.  An integral part of the Applied Materials experience since  2001, our ERGs provide forums for learning, exchanging  ideas, and strengthening bonds across and within our  employee communities and advise on our leaders’ efforts to  remove systemic barriers to inclusion. Virtual Inclusive Leader Summits: In early 2021, we  launched experiential learning opportunities targeting  our top 400 executives for participation in two half-day  sessions designed to build awareness of insider culture and  the unique roles played by both insiders and outsiders in  creating an inclusive culture. ■ The Inclusive Manager: Explains actions managers  can take to increase inclusion, engagement, and team  performance, with an emphasis on understanding  unconscious bias, being aware of micro-messages, and  creating psychological safety. ■ Unconscious Bias and Micro-inequities: Explores the  social stereotypes individuals can internalize about  certain groups of people without being consciously  aware they’re doing so. The training challenges  participants to test their automatic assumptions, move  from micro-inequities to micro-affirmations, and be  mindful of the ARTS of Inclusion: Appreciation, Respect,  Trust, and Sensitivity. ■ Inclusive Virtual Meetings: Examines challenges and  best practices for facilitating inclusive virtual meetings. Black History Month  As part of our 2021 virtual celebration,  nearly 350 Applied attendees welcomed  activist and diversity educator Jane Elliot   for a candid conversation about today’s  racial justice issues. In a post-talk survey,  92% of respondents said the event gave  them valuable insight on racism, allyship,  and/or partnership. Global Culture of Inclusion Summit Held in October 2020, our virtual COI  Summit served as the launchpad for our  Listen, Learn, and Act campaign, which  challenges our workforce to listen to  people’s lived experiences, deepen their  understanding of unconscious bias, learn to  work in community across differences, and  act to bring about change. More than 1,700  global employees and contingent workers  participated and more than 1,500 signed  personal pledges to work toward inclusion in  everything they do. Pride Month  Applied Materials stands in solidarity to  support LGBTQ+ rights. In 2020, employees  raised the rainbow flag at our headquarters  in Silicon Valley, as well as at our sites in  Austin, Gloucester, and Israel. With support  from our ERGs and regional sites, we also  hosted virtual workshops and lectures in the  U.S. and India to increase understanding of  LGBTQ+ rights and workplace challenges.  Lead Like an Ally Held in September 2020 and cosponsored  by the Santa Clara branches of our Black  Employee Network (BEN), Veterans  Employee Team (VET), Women’s  Professional Development Network  (WPDN), and Hispanics in Partnership  (HIP), this virtual workshop shared  strategies for leaders on facilitating diversity  and inclusion. WPDN U.S. Event  Throughout the year, various chapters of  our Women’s Professional Development  Network hosted and sponsored events  focused on women’s advancement and  inclusion and diversity, including National  Instruments Women Network’s “Defining  Your Success” panel discussion, which  engaged 214 attendees from seven  technology companies. WPDN Asia Pacific Events To celebrate International Women’s Day  month, WPDN members sponsored a digital  engagement series showcasing inspiring  professional stories from women at different  career stages across Applied Materials  Southeast Asia. At Applied Materials India,  our WPDN chapter collaborated to present  weekly learning sessions during Inclusion  Month in August 2020, discussing gender,  cultural, and multigenerational diversity, and  hiring biases. Since our first ERGs launched in  2001, the network has increased to  nine ERGs with 26 global chapters. ■ Women’s Professional Development Network ■ Young Professionals Network (YPN). As leaders in the technology industry, our practices  for attracting, recruiting, hiring, and onboarding a top- performing workforce must be enabled and informed by   a total commitment to inclusion and diversity. In 2020,   that imperative was challenged by the pandemic and  increased demand for industry talent, adding complexity   to meeting our growing skill needs, especially in  semiconductor technologies. Our diverse talent recruiting efforts focus on attracting candidates from the  technology industry and related fields, seeking talented new graduates from  universities with strong engineering and science programs (including U.S.  schools with large Black and Hispanic student populations), and building a  pipeline of future talent through STEM education initiatives with colleges,  universities, and nonprofit partners serving middle and high school students. ■ For new college graduate (NCG) positions in the U.S., provide  managers with a resume pool consisting of at least 50% female or  underrepresented minority candidates. ■ For NCG positions in China, Taiwan, India, and Israel, provide managers  with a resume pool consisting of at least 20% female candidates.  Innovate Anywhere,  Collaborate Everywhere By offering more remote, flexible work  models, we’re able to recruit talented  people from anywhere—expanding our  candidate pools, and enabling people  to work where they’re most effective. ■ Diverse Talent Sourcing Platform: In 2020, we invested in a new sourcing platform that allows us to search specifically for diverse candidates. ■ Talent Selection Playbook: In 2020, we rolled out a talent assessment framework and tools for assessing and selecting talent for current and future roles. The Talent Selection Playbook includes best practices in talent placement with a focus on diverse hiring. ■ Increased Referral Bonuses: We increased our referral bonus program for employees who refer qualified female candidates who are then hired for technical positions. ■ Expanded Geographical Searches: The COVID-19 pandemic proved the broad efficacy of distance-working models, leading us to expand our searches and broaden our potential talent pool beyond our operating regions. These initiatives and others led to an  increase in diverse hiring. Overall, we saw  a 3% global increase in diverse hiring in  our manufacturing job family group and a  4% increase in hiring in our Asia-Pacific  operations. Global NCG hiring increased  by 4.5% over FY2019 and resulted in more  diverse selections. ■ Military Recruiting: Building on our success from the past 10 years, we continued to actively recruit talent from the U.S. military, with recruiters who have clearance to access military bases and speak with candidates who are exiting the services. Dale Morris has a big job as director of engineering at Applied,  but he doesn’t miss an opportunity to get involved in other  company programs and initiatives where he can have a positive impact. Dale helped develop a new manufacturing-based college rotation program that  provides college graduates with exposure to different areas and job functions before  they start their new position at Applied. He is currently working on an emerging  leadership pipeline program for transitioning managers to executive roles, and actively  engages in various Employee Resources Groups, including founding the first “Green  Team” ERG in Austin, TX around 2007. Today, he is the President of the new Male  Employee Resource Group for Equity (MERGE). Dale joined Applied nearly 26 years ago while still in college himself. “It was a great  paying and challenging job I could do at night while also attending University of  Texas–Austin during the day to finish my undergrad engineering degree,” said Dale.  “Applied was a fast-growing company that felt like a start-up with many growth  opportunities.” Dale says these growth opportunities have helped create a culture   of longevity at Applied. Throughout 2020, the pandemic upended our  traditional recruiting, hiring, and onboarding  practices, forcing us to adapt quickly with  creative and transformative solutions. Despite logistical hurdles in 2020, we honored all current hiring  offers for both new employees and interns, and onboarded  incoming employees on schedule. Recruitment continued  throughout the year, and we undertook several virtual New  College Graduate (NCG) programs to drive in-depth, cross- functional training, provide access to a global knowledge  database, and assure optimal placement of new hires: ■ Semiconductor Products Group (SPG) Onboarding:  Recognizing the need to manage a talent shortage in  semiconductor technologies by training new hires, SPG  offered a virtual onboarding program that included three  weeks of in-depth industry training. ■ Fusion Rotation Program: Offered by our Implant  Semiconductor Equipment group in Gloucester, MA,  this two-year program offers new graduates in key  engineering disciplines a series of three to four unique  engineering assignments and one manufacturing  assignment, during which participants complete hands- on duties and work on large, collaborative year-end  engineering projects. ■ Supply Chain Rotation Program: This annual program  offers participants a series of multiple rotation  opportunities in our supply chain operation. ■ Finance Rotation Program: Offered through our Austin  and Silicon Valley offices, this program provides ongoing  mentoring, networking, skills development, and hands- on experience across various finance disciplines. In North America and globally, our internship programs also  continued operating on a remote-work basis throughout  the pandemic, giving students exposure to our diverse and  inclusive workplace and introducing them to career paths  and roles in both engineering and corporate. A significant  number of interns subsequently joined the company as full- time employees, with diverse talent representing 71.5% of  resulting U.S. hires. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the safety  of our employees and their families remained  our top priority. With our business deemed essential, the majority of our global  manufacturing, lab, and customer-focused employees continued  to work on-site at Applied or at customer locations. To keep  our employees healthy, we improved on our already exacting  on-site safety protocols. To keep them informed, we stepped  up our proactive internal communications around plans for  safety, business continuity, and promoting employee health  and wellness. To maintain cohesiveness around COVID-era  policies and programs, our Global Manager Forum engaged our  people managers with Q&A sessions, safety briefings, and other  resources to help them support their teams. To help our employees who shifted to a virtual, dispersed  work model, we introduced programs to support wellbeing  and address the complexities of melding work and home life,  especially for parents of school-age children. In an employee survey we conducted in July 2020, 92% of  respondents reported high confidence in Applied’s ability to  overcome COVID-19 challenges, and over 80% gave positive  marks on role expectation clarity, regular check-ins with  managers, and recognition from managers. Applied operations around the world responded quickly to the  pandemic with measures to keep our workplaces healthy and  safe while ensuring compliance with orders and restrictions  imposed by government authorities. Throughout 2020, we reduced on-site staffing to the essential  minimum needed to keep our critical labs and operations  active and able to support our customers. The rest of our  workforce worked virtually beginning in mid-March. To protect  our essential on-site employees, we maintained enhanced  safety and health protocols including strict screenings, social  distancing requirements, enhanced sanitation protocols, and  mandatory use of personal protective equipment. ■ Pay continuity policy: Employees who could no longer  come to work due to compromising health conditions  were paid their regular salaries and reassigned to  interim home-based work or provided other reasonable  accommodations where possible. ■ Standardized sick time: U.S. exempt and nonexempt  employees now have the same amount of sick time. For more details on Applied’s standard benefits, see here. ■ Home office expenses: We compensated our employees  for the expense of creating or upgrading home offices,  taking into account employee needs around technology,  productivity enhancements, and wellness needs  (ergonomic chairs, desks, etc.). ■ Flexible time off for vaccinations: To encourage our  employees to get their COVID-19 shots, we offer paid time  for any working hours used for vaccination appointments. ■ Health and wellness support: To adapt our health and  wellness benefits to the needs of the time, many in-person  programs were transitioned to virtual, offering services  from doctors, therapists, behavioral health coaches, fitness  providers, and nutritionists. All virtual visits are free through  our company-sponsored health plans through 2021.   ■ Support for working parents: To aid parents who  suddenly had to cope with the stress of managing their  children’s online education during work hours, we began  offering expanded research resources, training, and   tele-consultation support through the award-winning  Rethink program. In FY2020, Applied Materials set and met a target that 96% of relevant  employees would complete safety training by year-end. Weekly safety training  penetration reports, across all business units, are sent to all members of  executive management as part of the weekly EHS Update Report. Applied Materials maintains global programs and monitoring to promote  a safety culture and safe work practices, minimize workplace risks, and  support continuous improvement in our safety performance. We use the  definitions set by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and  Health Administration (OSHA) for recordable, lost-time, and restricted-day  injuries. These definitions are implemented globally for data gathering and  analysis, and we set targets and objectives both at the corporate and site level,  embedded into annual performance objectives. At the end of each year, results  are analyzed and the targets are reset for the coming year. To ensure safety is prioritized, many of our factories  have implemented 6S, a lean manufacturing concept  that empowers employees to assess and enhance  functionality and safety in their work areas. After  introducing 6S in 2019, injury rates fell by 35% in our  semiconductor manufacturing operations. In FY2020, Applied set a company- wide internal target of keeping our  TCIR to 0.45 or below. We met this  target, achieving a TCIR of 0.33. 0.33 TCIR achieved in 2020 In 2020, Applied received zero notices of violation worldwide.  Find additional information on Applied’s Occupational Health and Safety Program here. The main types of work-related injury accidents are strains, sprains, and fall-related incidents. TCIR is calculated as  (total number of OSHA Recordable injuries and illnesses x 200,000)/total hours worked by employees. DART rate  is calculated as (total number of DART incidents x 200,000)/total hours worked by employees. LTSR is calculated  as (total number lost workdays x 200,000)/total hours worked by employees. Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) 0.33 0.43 0.52 Days Away, Restricted, or   Transferred (DART) 0.23 0.29 0.34 Lost Time Severity Rate (LTSR) 3.70 3.63 5.41 Fatalities 0 0 0 FY2020 FY2019 FY2018 Applied Materials invests in creating growth  and development opportunities for our  employees to support an engaged, motivated,  and dedicated workforce that will propel our  business into the future. The confluence of COVID-19 and the onboarding of more  than 500 new hires challenged our training and development  programs in 2020, requiring us to quickly develop and  deploy new virtual alternatives to deliver on our plans and  objectives. At the same time, we evolved the structure of our  role-based employee development programs and rolled out  new leadership programs in several regions, businesses, and  functions, comprised of training, mentoring/coaching, and  special assignment projects. Our PATHWAY program helps each of our people plot a  customized course of growing their professional skills to help  Applied achieve our overall goals. In early 2021 we added  a focus on future skills, identifying capabilities that will be  required in the next phase of the digital age and offering  coursework to achieve those needs. PATHWAY also offers  flexible elective courses, enabling our people to explore  additional professional skills based on personal interest and  recommendations from managers.  The integrated PATHWAY platform allows employees  to browse and select courses related to their job role,  development plan, and skill topics critical to the company,  and provides role-based recommendations for self-directed  learning. To meet their requirement of completing 40  learning hours in each fiscal year, employees may supplement  required and elective coursework with university-level  coursework, professional accreditation or continuing- education workshops, or reading research papers. During 2020, over 14,000 employees accessed and  participated in training through the PATHWAY program. In 2020, Applied also invested in two new management  development initiatives to address growing needs from our  business. First, we piloted a Team Leader program in several  of our businesses and regions, equipping high-potential employees to carry out management functions like setting  goals, giving feedback, and managing team effectiveness. In  addition, we initiated a global Manager Forum, sparked by the  need to keep our people managers informed and connected  during COVID-19. This forum has evolved into a powerful  channel for people manager communication and training on  urgent real-time issues. The global health crisis we  face today is demonstrating  the need to think and act  differently, the value of  innovating anywhere and  collaborating everywhere, and  the urgency to care for our  planet and for one another. Build skill-based journeys (e.g., Data Analysis  Track, Communication Track, etc.) Appraise and track employee proficiency  in new skills 100% of our leaders, executive-level vice presidents, and  managers completed training in 2020, and 96% of full-time  employees completed role-related and additional training.  We have a 98% completion rate for new-hire training on  our Standards of Business Conduct, with the remaining 2%  receiving reminders until they fulfill their obligation. Additional information on training related to ethics and  compliance is provided here. Our successful pivot to virtual training across the  organization allowed us to meet our corporate training  objectives and goals for 2020. In our Applied Global Services  organization, the move to virtual enabled us to increase our  training capacity by more than 40% in 2020 while reducing  travel-related expenses by more than $7 million. For additional details and breakdowns, see the Report Annex. Learning Hours Trends and Total Hours Our commitment to protecting human rights  wherever we do business is formalized in our  new Human Rights Statement of Principles,  which Applied Materials published in June 2021. This statement builds upon our company-wide Standards  of Business Conduct, our Responsible Minerals Sourcing  Policy, and our position on the California Transparency in  Supply Chains Act. It also reflects common principles in key  international human rights standards, including the United  Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights,  and aligns with the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)  Code of Conduct. These policies and statements spell out our  commitments, enumerate our expectations around training  and accountability for our personnel and suppliers, and lay  out enforcement mechanisms for non-compliance. Photo taken pre-pandemic. Non-Discrimination: Applied Materials is committed  to providing a workplace that is free of discrimination,  harassment, and retaliation. We do not tolerate harassment  based on race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion,  age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status,  physical disability, mental disability, medical condition,  genetic information, family care leave status, union  membership, veteran status, or any other basis prohibited  by law. Our Non-Discrimination Policy protects employees  who have lodged good-faith reports of possible ethical issues or policy violations, or participated in any investigation,  proceeding, or hearing. The policy addresses conduct,  complaint procedure, supervisory responsibilities, responsive  action, and supplemental state-specific rules.  See the Occupational Health and Safety section of this report  for additional information on employee working conditions  and policies. See Supply Chain Responsibility for our  commitment to protecting human rights in our supply chain. We challenge ourselves to reimagine  processes, materials, lifecycles, and  applications to fundamentally transform  the impacts of technology and drive  lasting benefit to our planet. The COVID-19 pandemic  impacted nearly every aspect  of our business and lives during  the past year. Designated as an  essential business and responding  to unprecedented demand in the  semiconductor industry, Applied  nevertheless delivered record  performance in 2020. We view this extraordinary and challenging  year as a springboard for our global goals.  The tools, processes, and innovations that  enabled our company to deliver during the  global crisis, coupled with learnings from  our Climate Risk Assessment, will help us  achieve greater efficiency and footprint  reductions across our business even as the  world emerges from the pandemic. We also consider this an opportunity to  accelerate the sustainable transformation of  our industry and of worldwide technology  use. We continue to invest in renewable  electricity sources, including signing a major power purchase agreement for a  wind energy project that, once commercial  operation commences in late 2021, is  expected to be a major factor in meeting  our U.S. renewable energy goal. Still, we  have additional work to do to decouple our  business growth from our environmental  footprint. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in  2020 increased 5% from 2019 baseline, due  to record production of our semiconductor  products. We also transitioned our data  tracking to a more robust system, Intelex  SPI, which has required a slight restatement  of our 2019 Scope 1 and 2 data. This year’s  report represents a more accurate reflection  of our total footprint in 2019 and 2020, and  we will use this data to inform our strategy  as we continue to drive progress toward our  aggressive 2030 climate goals. 100% of our energy globally comes from renewable  sources by 2030, with an interim goal of 100% in the  U.S. by 2022 Goal Progress U.N. 30.9% of our global and 60% of our U.S. energy comes  from renewable sources Reduced hazardous waste in our global  operations by 62%, compared to 2019* *Applied is migrating our environmental data tracking to a new, more robust system, Intelex SPI. With this transition, Applied has identified updates and corrections to its 2019 data. See the 2020 Data Annex for more details. Through cleaner energy, improved  operational efficiency, and the use  of more energy-efficient building  materials and equipment at our  facilities, Applied Materials is  working to meet our commitments  for a low-carbon future. While we expect to see the year’s strong  demand and business growth continue  over the coming decade, we are developing  strategies to ensure that our renewable  energy projects and other environmental  initiatives will position us well for reducing  Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO₂e emissions 50% by  2030. We are also working to quantify our  Scope 3 emissions inventory as we prepare  to announce Scope 3 targets in 2022 as part  of our commitments through the Science  Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Applied Materials monitors current and  emerging climate-related risks on an annual  basis. Responsibility for identifying company- wide and site-specific risks rests with a  core team of global emergency response,  crisis management, and business continuity  personnel, as well as local Environmental Health  and Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) teams  and facilities teams. Our risk identification,  mitigation, and management plans help ensure  our ability to recover quickly from climate- related events and effectively support our  customers’ and suppliers’ operations.  In June 2020, we undertook a third-party  Climate Risk Assessment to identify  opportunities for improving our management  of climate-related risks and disclosures in line  with recommendations from the Task Force  on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.  The assessment included a physical  risk assessment utilizing three different  Representative Concentration Pathways  (RCPs) illustrating low, moderate, and  high-risk climate change scenarios in three  different years (2020 baseline, 2030, and  2050), to show both shorter- and longer-term risks. The assessment determined Applied’s  risk exposure across our global operations,  identifying our highest-risk assets and  operations based on various chronic and acute  geographical climate hazard indicators. This past year, our U.S. operations  experienced some of these climate change  impacts firsthand. In California, our facilities  were undamaged by 2020’s record-breaking  wildfire season, but hazardous air quality  forced us to update our buildings’ air intake  and filtration to MERV 13 wherever possible  and distribute N95 masks to our employees.  In Texas, the February 2021 winter directly  affected our manufacturing operations, with  power grid failures forcing a 5-day shutdown  at our manufacturing facility. In the coming years, we will perform  additional scenario analyses and disclose  specific cases in which the analyses have  influenced business strategy and objectives.  After completing our analysis of Scope 3  emissions in 2022, we will begin analyzing  transitional risks (e.g., shifting asset values,  higher costs of doing business, and carbon  regulation compliance) associated with  Applied’s transition to a low-carbon economy. In 2020, Applied Materials’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions  (market-based) totaled approximately 151,300 metric tons  of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO₂e), a 5% rise from  2019 driven primarily due to the opening of new Applied  manufacturing facilities in Taiwan, process expansion in  Massachusetts, and overall production and business growth  to meet unprecedented demand in the semiconductor  industry. The largest part of our Scope 1 and 2 footprint is traceable to  the power needs of our factories and labs and is the area of  greatest additional reduction. To keep us on track toward our  100% renewable energy commitments (U.S. by 2022, global  by 2030), we are evaluating increases in our renewable  energy procurement. Our Scope 2 (market-based) emissions fell to approximately  102,400 MT CO2e in 2020, a 2% decrease from 2019. This  was driven in part by partial facility closures due to COVID-19  remote-work protocols. The likely persistence of remote work  options post-COVID should help us toward our Scope 1 and 2  emissions reductions goals. As part of our commitment to setting science-based targets,  we are on track toward our goal of quantifying our Scope 3  emissions inventory. By early 2020 we had already measured  and established reduction strategies for emissions tied to  employee travel, a category whose numbers fell nearly 71%  during 2020 due to pandemic restrictions and the viability  of teleconferencing. Post-COVID, Applied Materials intends  to continue encouraging the use of teleconferencing and  virtual platforms in lieu of travel wherever feasible. We are  currently assessing details of our lifecycle tool emissions,  setting baselines for tools produced by our semiconductor  business, and preparing to set baselines for our display and  semiconductor technologies businesses. We also anticipate  quantifying Scope 3 emissions across at least 10 of the  15 categories, and completing our inventory and setting  reduction targets in 2022. Air emissions from our manufacturing processes are treated  with point-of-use abatement units and facility scrubbers  before being discharged to the atmosphere, consistent with  local or regional air permit requirements. Inadvertent omission of data led us to  inaccurately report our 2019 Scope 1 and 2  totals as 145,400 MT CO₂e. Our actual 2019  Scope 1 and 2 emissions totaled 144,200  MT CO₂e. We have improved our internal  data entry and checking systems to assure  reliability, and are now working with a third- party data assurance partner. In 2020, Applied Materials set a target of  securing 100% of our global energy needs from  renewables by 2030, with an intermediate step  of using 100% renewable power in our U.S.  operations by 2022. To enable those targets,  we are following a global renewable energy  strategy built around three complementary  strategies: ■ On-site solar power generation: Applied Materials  maintains on-site solar generating capacity at our  facilities in Singapore; Austin, TX; Sunnyvale, CA; and  Xi’an, China. Combined, these arrays generated 374  MWh of clean power in 2020. ■ Virtual power purchase agreements and RECs:  Financial contracts with external solar, wind, and other  renewable energy generating projects that deliver  power to the grid. Each Renewable Energy Certificate  (REC) provided by project owners represents the  environmental benefits of 1MWh of electricity generated  from renewable sources, affirming our investment in  renewable power and providing reductions in our Scope  2 emissions. ■ Utility green procurement programs: Direct purchase  of renewable energy from a utility provider. We continue to evaluate further renewable energy   projects worldwide. In 2020, Applied used 121,982 MWh of green power from a  combination of these three sourcing strategies, representing  nearly 31% of our total U.S. power needs for the year. We  also signed a power purchase agreement to support a new  500-megawatt wind energy project in Crockett County, TX.  We anticipate being able to offset a large percentage of our  U.S. footprint as this facility begins coming online in late 2021. Our emissions reduction efforts are only one  part of Applied Materials’ overall commitment  to reducing our environmental impacts.  Throughout our global operations, we also  work continuously to reduce waste, conserve  resources, ensure safe and healthy work  environments for our people, and demonstrate  environmental leadership in our communities. With pandemic measures taking precedence throughout  2020, we initiated no major new conservation, efficiency, or  recycling/reuse programs. Nevertheless, the fact that 70% of  our people worked remotely, leaving our non-manufacturing  facilities functioning at significantly reduced capacity, likely  contributed to year-on-year reductions in consumption of  groundwater (down by 26%) and water for irrigation (down  by 21%). Our labs and manufacturing facilities account for the largest  share of our global energy and water consumption. To help  reduce consumption within the semiconductor industry, we  are working with our customers on our ambitious 3x30 goals,  which include boosting manufacturing efficiency and driving  a 30% reduction in equivalent energy consumption for our  semiconductor products. Applied Materials’ Environmental Health and Safety (EHS)  policy commits our company to protecting the environment.  The policy is signed by our President and CEO, distributed  to all Applied locations globally, and referenced often during  site team and management meetings. Our EHS&S organization is an integrated entity with  teams responsible for EHS in on-site operations (including  construction, fire and life safety, and contractor safety),  hazard and risk identification, customer site support  operations, emergency preparedness, environmental  management, and product safety. These efforts are supported  by company management and guided by our EHS policy. The  Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee  receives a report on EHS and sustainability matters each  quarter and a more in-depth environmental and sustainability  update annually. We implement our EHS policy through our Environmental  Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS), which  conforms with international management system standards  such as ISO 14001, ISO 45001, the U.S. Department of  Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration  (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), and EHS  documentation to the requirements of ISO 9000. See here for more information on ISO certifications for our  manufacturing sites. See the Climate and Energy section of this report for more   on Applied’s emissions and renewable power policies   and performance. Recent years saw Applied’s energy usage remain relatively  flat despite rapid operational growth. In 2020, energy use  increased as demand for our products grew. ■ Continuously monitoring energy use and conducting  energy audits    ■ Building optimal energy efficiency into all new   facility construction    ■ Purchasing only the most energy-efficient   new equipment    ■ Optimizing the temperature of water used in   our operations    ■ Transitioning to 100% renewable energy in the U.S.   by 2022 and worldwide by 2030 In 2019, Applied opened a second building for partial usage in Tainan, Taiwan, called Tainan Manufacturing  Center 2 (TMC2). Awarded the Taiwan Green Building label in 2020, the center utilizes green construction  materials and is outfitted with high-efficiency chillers and AI control for AC systems, high abatement efficiency  for ozone-depleting gases, a high percentage of LED lighting, rainwater recycling, abundant outdoor planting, and  other features promoting energy savings, efficiency, waste reduction, and employee health. Functioning as the  new home to our Display manufacturing operation, TMC2 is expected to be fully operational beginning in 2023. Applied is committed to minimizing waste  across our locations and logistics operations,  with a special focus on non-recyclable, landfill- bound waste. To reduce Applied’s overall environmental impact, our facilities  are working to minimize the amount of waste generated  (for example, by reducing printed documentation), shifting  to reusable/recyclable materials wherever possible, sorting  recyclables at point of disposal, and maximizing composting   of organic materials from our cafeteria operations. Waste reduction, reuse, and recycling programs are managed  at the site level, with waste management targets set for  individual manufacturing sites based on the ISO 14001  framework. Site program targets are reviewed on an ongoing  basis and scored annually, an approach that has led to a  measurable reduction in solid waste and increased reuse and  recycling of product and packaging materials. In 2020, we achieved a nearly 34% reduction in overall waste  from our 2019 performance through a combination of ongoing  reduction/recycling program success and a drop in waste from  office and cafeteria operations due to COVID remote work  protocols. We also slightly increased our diversion rate from  landfill/incineration to 80%, from 79.2% in 2019. See the Design for Sustainability section for information on  our responsible product and packaging initiatives. Hazardous Waste Management: Hazardous waste accounted  for 2% of our annual waste output in 2020, representing  a nearly 63% reduction in volume from 2019. We contract  with licensed third parties to transport both solid and other  waste (including hazardous waste) for off-site disposal,  consistent with applicable laws and regulations. Our EHS  and Sustainability organization provides additional oversight  of third-party hazardous material disposal companies and  ensures that all disposal sites and methods meet regulatory  requirements. We also evaluate potential vendors via  the CHWMEG Facility Review Program, which provides  environmental, operational, and financial information on  waste treatment, disposal, recycling, and storage facilities. Wastewater Management: Applied strives to reduce the  negative impacts of wastewater produced by our operations,  monitoring to ensure sufficient removal of solids and  adherence to permitted parameters (e.g., pH and fluoride  content) before discharge to publicly owned treatment  works. Each Applied facility is responsible for wastewater  monitoring, with problems escalated to the site management  team and applicable corporate staff for immediate correction. Diverted non-hazardous waste 6,629.5 Non-hazardous waste to landfill/ incineration 1,493.8 Total waste generation  8,286.9 Total hazardous waste* 163.6 Total non-hazardous waste 8,123.2 Although Applied’s operations are  not conspicuously high-volume water  consumers, we strive to optimize our  water use efficiency across our global  operations. Our R&D labs account for our  highest consumption of high-quality fresh  water, followed by our manufacturing  operations, routine use at our offices, and  landscape irrigation around our properties.  In manufacturing, only a few of our toolsets  require significant water, with others relying  on efficient closed-loop cooling systems.  In 2020, our total water withdrawal rose  by 3.7% over 2019, owing to increased  production and research and development  demands. Our use of water for irrigation  purposes at our facilities fell by nearly 21%. Facilities groups are responsible for water  use management at specific Applied sites,  with oversight from the company’s EHS&S  organization. Our Managing Director of  EHS&S is responsible for ensuring that  water-related risks and minimization  opportunities are assessed as appropriate.  Water reduction is covered under our  EHS policy and ISO 14001 EHSMS, which call for our business operations  to identify opportunities and make  continual improvements on environmental  preservation and natural resource  conservation, and to meet or exceed all  relevant regulatory requirements. Looking forward, Applied is developing an official policy focused on the continued reduction of water use and consumption, reuse and recycling  where feasible, and improved measurement and documentation of our water use. We are also conducting physical risk assessments of potential  adverse climate change impacts to our global manufacturing facilities, including water-related impacts. Assessing Water Risk: To gauge our water risks and identify  water-stressed regions around the world, Applied Materials  uses widely accepted tools such as the World Resources  Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Tool and Aqueduct Water Risk  Atlas. In 2020, 14% of our total water withdrawal occurred  in water-stressed locations, notably at our California R&D  facility. Our other most significant water risk is tied to  changing demand as customers seek ever more sustainable  products. We are responding to this risk by innovating more  water-efficient tools. Water Discharge and Wastewater: Applied Materials recognizes  our responsibility to protect water sources in the communities  where we operate, and to promote strong water stewardship  practices throughout our value chain. To minimize both water  consumption and wastewater discharge, our facilities recycle and  reuse as much water as possible for cooling, landscaping, and  other uses. Water that cannot be recycled or reused undergoes  careful quality monitoring and is pre-treated consistent with  local laws, regulations, and permit requirements before being  discharged to publicly owned treatment works. Each Applied  facility is responsible for wastewater monitoring, with issues  escalated to the site management team and applicable corporate  staff for immediate resolution. Water Reclamation in Austin: In Austin, TX, our largest  wet tool manufacturing facility operates an Industrial Waste  Neutralization (IWN) program, reusing treated industrial  wastewater in the cooling towers that provide building  temperature management. The system provides over 90% of  total cooling tower make-up water in cold months, and augments  the original make-up water source during hotter months. Since  2017, the IWN system has reduced our usage of potable water by  approximately 104 megaliters. We embrace our unique opportunity to  shape and empower a more inclusive  and sustainable future by delivering  transformative innovation that works in  harmony with nature. The core of Applied Materials’  2030 sustainability vision is  our commitment to innovating  transformative solutions that  empower a digital society. As the  leader in materials engineering  solutions used to produce virtually  every new chip and advanced  display in the world, we recognize  Applied has an exceptional  opportunity to effect change  across the technology industry. Throughout 2020 and into 2021, we have  been strengthening our infrastructure to  transform our own portfolio and advance our  customers’ roadmaps for a more sustainable  future. We are taking an end-to-end, data- driven approach to identify opportunities  across our full network manufacturing,  logistics, and supply chain—and focusing  where we can have the greatest impact. Our Design for Sustainability Center of  Excellence is driving groundbreaking  sustainability innovation across our product  lines, resulting in lower consumption and cost  savings for both Applied and our customers. We are piloting new packaging solutions  to reduce weight and waste and increase  recyclability, and shifting to intermodal  shipping, which will significantly decrease the  carbon footprint associated with airfreight.  Following the launch of our new Supply Chain  Certification for Environmental and Social  Sustainability (SuCCESS2030) initiative in July  2020, we established a SuCCESS2030 Center  to oversee and support implementation. Through our single and two-layer recyclable  flexible packaging product innovations, we are  working to address one of the world’s largest  contributors to ocean pollution and other  environmental degradation: discarded food  and consumer product packaging. We are  developing packaging materials that are more  easily recyclable and working with partners  to innovate renewable and biodegradable  paper-based materials that deliver the barrier  performance needed to extend product shelf  life and reduce food waste. Goal Progress U.N. Goal Progress U.N. * In our 2019 Sustainability Report, we erroneously committed to a goal of transitioning to recycled content  packaging, rather than recyclable content packaging. While we use recycled content in packaging when it meets  performance specifications (e.g., stacking strength, plastic purity), it is infeasible for all applications. Among other quality certifications, Applied is globally  certified to ISO 9001:2015 for quality management. In the same way our innovations make possible  the technology shaping the future, our  innovations in sustainable design are helping  lead the technology industry toward cleaner,  greener manufacturing. Since 2018, all in-development Applied Materials products  and processes across our semiconductor business lines  reflect the application of “Design for Sustainability” methods  and principles, which focus on designing long-lasting and  reusable or recyclable products to minimize the use of natural  resources and help our customers boost sustainability in their  own manufacturing operations. In our semiconductor business, we continue to work with our  customers to drive our ten-year 3x30 goals, seeking to reduce  the high energy and chemical impacts of semiconductor  manufacturing industry-wide.  Covering both designed-in efficiencies in new products  and processes and hardware/software improvements for  existing products, our comprehensive, industry-leading effort  encompasses three core elements: As a result of our Design for Sustainability program, we have  active sustainability development projects across our SPG  product lines. Part of our Systems Engineering organization, Applied’s  Design for Sustainability CoE analyzes both in-design and  existing semiconductor product sets to identify new energy,  water, waste, and chemical reduction opportunities. With this design support, our product groups’ responsibilities extend beyond  traditional performance attributes to encompass sustainability performance  as well—adding new features to our existing portfolio of energy-saving  product enhancements, passing on substantial energy saving opportunities to  our customers, and modeling sustainability leadership industry-wide.  In Bengaluru, India, our concept and prototyping lab works closely with  our CoE and U.S. labs, doing development work dedicated to improving  sustainability performance—for example, redesigning chillers and chilling  processes to reduce energy and water consumption, locating sensors  optimally to collect data and inform sustainability improvements, etc. Comprising technology experts from  industry, academia, and government,  GTAB advises on ways Applied  Materials’ products and technologies  can address challenges, create  opportunities, and enable a better  future. Launched in 2020, GTAB is  led by our CTO. Designed in-house, our web-based modeling and quantification tool analyzes  design and end-user data to pinpoint sustainability improvements for  legacy, in-production, and design-stage semiconductor manufacturing tools.  Modeling efforts focus on our 3x30 goals of reducing energy use, chemical  consumption, and the equipment’s physical footprint to increase throughput  density per square foot of cleanroom space. Where possible, we try to create  standardized methodologies that drive reductions across multiple tools. Analysis of tools in the design stage provides design engineers with data on  the tool’s projected resource consumption and other environmental impacts,  allowing improvements before the tool goes into production. Analysis of  existing tools supports identification of process efficiency improvements that  we can communicate to our customers to boost sustainability performance. To date, our analyses have focused primarily on energy consumption,  examining every tool component for potential savings, with a particular  focus on components known to be particularly energy-intense (heater chuck,  chillers, pumps, etc.). These analyses have surfaced insights we’ve used to  deploy energy-reduction projects with multiple customers. Our analyses to support tool footprint reductions have also yielded real-world  success, leading to design changes that will shave nearly 20% off the footprint  of certain tool sets in their next generation. As of mid-2021, we are nearing completion of our first-in-the-industry  chemical consumption analysis and expect to begin leveraging these results  for design and process improvements before year-end. Cradle-to-grave envelope captures global warming impact from production/transport of input chemicals to post-abatement  wafer process emissons. In the 2000s, Applied Materials’ advanced  equipment ushered in the era of flat-panel  LCD displays, a transformative technology that  consumes less than half the energy of older CRT  displays. Now Applied’s displays business is poised  to drive the next evolution in screen technology  through tools that simplify fabrication of OLED  (organic light-emitting diode) displays, driving  down production costs and consumer prices. Unlike LCDs, which use liquid crystals to modulate  light from an always-on backlight unit, the pixels  in OLED technology are self-illuminating. This  simplified architecture makes possible thinner and  more flexible panels with superior color range and  contrast, cooler running temperatures, and lower  energy consumption. Since OLED screens consume  power in direct ratio to the brightness of the picture  they’re displaying, darker display colors, modes,  and schemes consume between 30% and 60% less  energy than LCDs in similar display modes. Through our focus on improving the sustainability  performance of new and existing tools, Applied Materials  is helping semiconductor manufacturers realize substantial  energy savings, meet their own sustainability goals, and  shrink the industry’s overall energy and chemical footprint. Recently, Applied partnered with one of our key customers,  TSMC, to introduce our iSystem™ intelligent controller at its  Fab 15B facility in Taichung City, Taiwan. Collecting data from  the operation of semiconductor fabrication tools, iSystem™  enables tracking of resource consumption, GHG emissions,  and other environmental factors. At TSMC, energy-saving  measures developed from iSystem™ data have resulted  in annual savings of 13.4 million kWh of electricity, GHG  reductions of 13,800 MT CO₂e, and cost benefits of NT$85  million (US$3 million). In 2020, we achieved reductions of >30% in area per wafer  pass on selected products for metal deposition, dielectric  deposition, and ALD, and a >18% reduction in selected etch  process products. Available energy-saving features on our  CMP and Epi products reduced energy consumption by >5%  and >7%, respectively. Product enhancements have also  resulted in savings through optimizing the flow of Clean Dry TSMC also recently announced sustainability advances in  its supplier collaborations aimed at developing green fab  equipment for chip manufacturing. Applied is a key partner in  this initiative, helping TSMC achieve a major milestone of 200  GWh energy savings for N5/N3 nodes. ■ 24.5 million liters de-ionized (DI) water, saving an  equivalent amount in city water consumption plus the  >220 MWh energy required for its conversion to high- purity DI water ■ 8.2 million liters helium (a non-renewable resource),  eliminating 32 MT CO₂e from manufacturing energy Air (CDA) and chilled water, reducing chemical exhaust by  switching heat-exchange settings and reducing pump speeds,  and introducing an idle/sleep mode setting when tools are  not processing wafers. Implementing peripheral components  with the ability to operate at less than maximum power is a  key enabler of reducing total tool energy consumption. A robust communications program informs our customers of  new tools, upgrades to their existing systems, and advanced  service products, stressing yield improvements, cost  reductions, and sustainability benefits. Applied Materials works to promote the  circular economy vision by eliminating waste  through design, creating efficiencies across  the product lifecycle and employing materials  that can be reused or recycled at the end of a  product’s functional life. Our systems are designed to last, to support upgrades and  repurposing for new applications, and to be easily repairable  if parts fail or performance falls below acceptable standards.  To support the sustainability, speed, and cost-effectiveness  of these operations, we maintain a two-pronged approach to  spare parts: engineering our newly manufactured parts for  greater repairability and using refurbished parts whenever  possible for repair and remanufacture. Expanding repairability: The process of converting from  consumable to repairable parts is continuous, resulting in our  percentage of repairable parts increasing from 65% to over  70% over the past three years. In a cross-functional effort,  our product design and manufacturing engineers identify  parts that can be reengineered for repairability, while parts  and service engineers from our Applied Global Services  (AGS) business collaborate to develop service routines and  grow their familiarity with process operations, parts, kits, and  replacement cycles. Recovery and reuse: Within AGS, a dedicated team  specializes in recovering parts and assemblies from the  market and reconditioning them for reuse, reducing our  manufacturing operation’s need for virgin materials.  Each recovered part goes through an exacting process of  inspection, decontamination, refurbishment, and repair,  and is then recertified by AGS as “like new” for reuse and  recirculation, with a full warranty and the same service  level as a new part. On average, 40% of the parts used for  servicing Applied Materials tools have been refurbished  after previous use in an Applied system. We are constantly  improving our refurbishment processes to grow that number  by encompassing more part categories—for example,  electrostatic chucks, whose reuse rate has increased 11%  over the past three years. We maintain one of the industry’s  largest global inventories of spare parts, with recovered parts  searchable in our inventory management system and ready to  be pulled for cleaning and reconditioning. At our Flexible Technology Group business unit in Germany,  our sales, business development, and design functions are  working with customers to develop new solutions to increase  the recyclability of food packaging materials. Spurred  by impending regulatory targets for reducing packaging  waste, companies are committing to a full transition to  biodegradable, recyclable, or renewable materials within the  decade, and leveraging Applied’s expertise with roll-to-roll  vacuum coating systems to help them get there. The focus of this work is replacing aluminum foil layers with  barrier films made on our tools that enable the transition  to more easily recyclable structures made from a single  polymer material (e.g., all-polypropylene pouches). We are  partnering with various companies to find ways to create  barrier paper that is both renewable and biodegradable.  Applied Materials’ oxide coating technology is also enabling  improvements to the barrier of new pouches made from  BOPEF film, a 100% bio-based polyester created from  renewable feedstocks. Through these and other solutions, we’re helping to build  a circular economy that retains the value embedded in  packaged food by extending shelf life and preventing food  waste (which accounts for as much as one eighth of global  GhG emissions), while also mitigating packaging’s effects on  our land, seas, and resources. Applied Materials is a member of CEFLEX, a collaborative initiative representing the full value chain of flexible packaging.  CEFLEX stakeholders have endorsed a five-step roadmap to building a circular economy for flexible packaging, together with  needed actions in each part of the value chain to make it happen. © ceflex.eu  64 Applied Materials develops and implements  comprehensive product design, manufacturing,  labeling, and testing policies and programs  to ensure our products are safe to use and  comply with applicable legal requirements and  industry standards and guidelines. Third-party  assessments validate that our products meet  applicable safety requirements. We follow all relevant country- and region-specific  requirements. For example, products distributed in China  are marked with a mandatory “China RoHS 25” label to  comply with the administrative measure on the control of  pollution from electronic information products. Products sold  in the European Union comply with regional manufacturing  and labeling requirements, including the CE mark affirming  conformity with European health, safety, and environmental  standards. Products sold in the UK bear the similar UKCA  (UK Conformity Assessed) mark. Any business unit or group that develops, sells, or distributes products ensures such products have been engineered to protect  personnel, the user’s facilities, and the environment from exposure to risks, and that any residual risks remain below a minimum  acceptable level when the products are operated, maintained, and serviced in accordance with the instructions and information  provided to the user. Our Product Safety group partners with other company functions to oversee the design of products and  services, monitors their safety during the product’s lifecycle, and drives compliance with our product safety policy and procedures. Our risk-assessment  standards follow the  applicable SEMI S10 industry  risk assessment guideline,  with potential enhancements  currently under review. In 2020, Applied Materials introduced our new SuCCESS2030 initiative,  a 10-year roadmap that extends our sustainability vision across our  supply chain for semiconductor and display manufacturing. Under SuCCESS2030, Applied’s assessments of supplier performance and capabilities now  require shared commitments in five main ESG focus areas, most of which include defined  performance targets. In three of these areas, we are running pilot programs to test efficiency  and waste-reduction processes, with the intention of sharing key learnings with our supplier  partners, magnifying positive impacts across the industry. ■ Supplier Responsibility, Engagement, and Assessment: Applied strives to be a partner  to our suppliers, providing resources, guidelines, tools, and trainings to build capacity on  advancing sustainable practices and supporting our suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers  in their efforts to conform to the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) code of conduct.  From this baseline, we can better gauge progress using RBA assessments and audits. ■ Packaging: Our precision tools and products require carefully designed packaging to  avoid damage during transport, and we are continuously exploring reuse, reduction, and  recycling options. We are piloting the balance of all three with certain packaging materials  and types. Cases and crates are designed for reuse, whereas boxes contain recyclable  content such as corrugated fiberboard and plastics. Testing and measurement drive the  feasibility of reducing the use of virgin materials. Our goal is to reach 80% recyclable  content for targeted plastics and corrugated fiberboard by year-end 2023. ■ Transportation and Logistics: To reduce emissions from airfreight, we are exploring use  of intermodal shipping options that can deliver product within a reasonable time frame.  As an interim goal, we have a target of using these methods to achieve a 15% reduction   in logistics GHG emissions by year-end 2023. SuCCESS2030 strengthens Applied’s ESG supply chain strategy, building on our foundation  of supporting ethical labor practices, environmentally responsible operations, responsible  minerals sourcing, and other programs promoting adherence to industry standards  and international human rights standards. SuCCESS2030 is managed through our new  SuCCESS2030 Office, which oversees metrics and compliance audits and conducts training  and coordination with participating suppliers. ■ Wastewater: Though our own operations are neither water-intensive nor large emitters  of wastewater, we are cognizant of the need to reduce our industry’s large footprint  in both areas. Currently, we are piloting a program to test the efficacy of removing all  phosphates used in pre-treatment of metal surfaces and shifting to zinc oxide. Our  goal is to eliminate 100% of phosphates employed in this process by year-end 2023,  throughout our supply chain.   ■ Inclusion and Supplier Diversity: Mirroring our own I&D journey, SuCCESS2030  promotes development of robust diversity strategies throughout our supply chain. Our  own near-term supplier diversity targets include increased representation of women  and other underrepresented groups and increased percentage spend with women- and  minority-owned businesses, all by 2024. We are also working with our trade associations  to significantly grow the pipeline of diverse talent available to the industry by 2030. SuCCESS2030 is a series of best practices for  building a more sustainable business, society,  and planet. As we raise the bar, we’re also  building our suppliers’ competencies to reach it. Contract Obligations  For direct suppliers, our ESG requirements are incorporated  into our Global Supplier Agreements and other supplier  agreements via our “Supplier ESG Requirements” attachment,  and are also included in the terms and conditions for all  purchase-order transactions. These requirements are also  enumerated in our most commonly used agreements for  indirect services. In 2021, we are adding the requirements to  logistics supplier terms. By contract as applicable, Applied’s  supplier are required to: ■ Provide information requested by Applied to enable our  company to comply with material content restriction  regulations, including but not limited to REACH (EC  number 1907/2006) and the U.S. Toxic Substances  Control Act Our Applied commodity business managers are required  to complete these trainings, assuring that the people who  engage most frequently with our suppliers can knowledgeably  communicate our sustainability expectations. These SuCCESS2030 trainings extend our existing supplier  training program, which offers web-based training on our  Standards of Business Conduct, EHS trainings on maintaining  safe work environments, and other resources related to our  policies and procedures. Engagement and Training   We want this work to be a partnership, with collaboration  driving benefit to all parties. In 2021, we began offering a  structured program of webinars, trainings, and assistance to  help our suppliers close any gaps across our ESG focus areas: We conduct detailed evaluations of reported information and assign suppliers risk scores using  a weighted risk matrix that encompasses ESG and other risk indicators. Rather than focusing  corrective action solely on suppliers identified as high ESG risks, we are implementing our  SuCCESS2030 holistically, identifying gaps at every level and giving suppliers the resources and  tools they need to comply and thrive. Internal audits of suppliers identified as having high ESG risk began in 2020, though COVID-19  forced us to curtail a planned pilot program of on-site ESG audits for certain high-risk direct  suppliers. Consistent with RBA provisions, Applied required 25% of our high-risk suppliers to  undergo an RBA external audit in 2020. This percentage grew to 33% in 2021 and will reach  50% in 2022. We have contracted with an RBA-approved third-party audit firm to conduct such  audits consistent with RBA audit standards. Supplier Assessments and Audit   Applied Materials employs a metrics-based approach to assessing supply chain ESG risks and  reflects these assessments in our supplier scorecards. To secure baseline data, we require  subsets of our suppliers (as applicable) to: Applied Materials is unequivocally committed to protecting human rights and  conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner around the world. We  condemn and are committed to ending forced and bonded labor in all its forms,  including child labor, indentured labor, slavery, and human trafficking. Our commitment to protecting human rights wherever we do business is detailed  in the policies and statements listed on page 41. We communicate our human  rights commitments and requirements clearly to our supply chain and business  partners to ensure compliance with our expectations around humane treatment of  the workforce and forbidding forced and bonded labor. We conduct due diligence  on human rights risk in our supply chain, and flag zero-tolerance issues in our  supplier scorecards. View our Human Rights Statement of Principles here.  68 Applied Materials is committed to the  responsible sourcing of minerals used in   our products. Key to this commitment is our policy around tantalum, tin,  tungsten, and gold, commonly referred to as 3TG or conflict  minerals for their frequent origin in the Democratic Republic  of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries affected by conflict  and human rights abuses. While our products include components manufactured with  3TG minerals, we neither purchase these minerals directly  nor maintain any direct relationship with mines, smelters,  or refiners that process these minerals. To communicate our  commitment to due diligence and disclosure and guide our  direct suppliers’ sourcing of 3TG minerals, we adopted a  Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy in 2020. To assure the  efficacy of our policy, we utilize the Responsible Minerals  Initiative (RMI) Responsible Minerals Assurance Process as  well as independent third-party audits. In calendar 2020, we  increased the number of suppliers we surveyed as part of  our due diligence efforts by approximately 58% over 2019,  to cover 91% of our total supplier spend (versus 80% in  2019). We have maintained a near 100% response rate to the  Conflict Minerals Reporting Template issued to suppliers. In 2020, we extended our responsible minerals commitment  beyond 3TG by conducting due diligence on our supply  chain’s use of cobalt, a frequently DRC-sourced mineral  that has been tied to child labor, unsafe working conditions,  and adverse environmental impacts. This effort, which  encompassed suppliers likely to employ cobalt in products  sold to Applied Materials (and who represent 42% of our  annual spend), garnered an 86% response rate. Looking  ahead, we intend to expand due diligence to the copper,  nickel, lead, zinc, and mica used in our products, consistent  with RMI guidance. Packaging Reduction and Reuse   Our precision products require carefully  designed packaging to avoid damage from  shock and vibration during transport. In 2020, approximately 60% of our packaging materials were  made from recyclable materials (polyethylene, polypropylene,  corrugated fiberboard, steel, and wood), many of which are  also reusable. In 2021, we are developing new specifications  that require suppliers to report materials data to enable  better tracking of our packaging’s recyclable content. Other  current initiatives include: Lighter Polyethylene Bags  To save materials, we are moving from 6 mil to 4 mil  thickness for our low-density polyethylene (LDPE) bags.  As of mid-2021, the changeover is 90% complete at our  Singapore manufacturing facility. Hybrid Crate Design  In Q2 2021, we began replacing cleated-plywood and lumber  crates with hybrid crates for lighter product shipments.  Using the same wooden base but replacing the top with  corrugated kraft board, the new crates offer a 50% reduction  in packaging weight, saving the equivalent of 3,917 trees  annually. They also cut transport emissions and packaging  material cost, ease recycling, and increase safety for freight  handlers. Parts inside are well-packed and fully moisture- barrier bagged. In one recent shipment, the new crates saved  208 pounds in shipping weight. Reusable Packaging  In 2021, we began piloting a program to collect packaging  materials (wooden crates, metal fixtures) post-install from  customer sites and return them to the manufacturing location  for reuse. Beginning with a domestic loop from Singapore,  we are testing international loops in Q3 2021. A current  pilot project is using our Logistics Tracking System to enable  packaging collection and reuse. We are also exploring a  reusability process for our 500-pound pallets. Reusable Packaging Labels  In 2020, we introduced new labels that communicate to   the end user that the packaging is reusable and must not   be discarded. Waste Reduction  To keep our packaging out of landfills, Applied prohibits the  use of non-recyclable materials such as Styrofoam. We also  plan to restrict the use of non-recyclable and environmentally  burdening materials such as PVC and toxic foams. In line with our SuCCESS2030 emissions-reduction goals,  Applied Materials is taking steps to shift our airfreight  operations to lower-emission modes such as road and ocean  transport. Additional cross-functional planning allows us to  buffer against slower shipping times, preventing negative  impact on operations. In July and November 2020, respectively, we began the process  of shifting from air to road transport for freight from Vietnam and  China to Singapore. On the Vietnam to Singapore route, we’ve  succeeded in shifting nearly 100% of shipments. The China- to-Singapore shift currently stands at approximately 75%. In  Rehovot, Israel, we were able to divert 51% of air-shipments to  sea-shipments during 2020, reflecting an overall increase of 5%  compared to 2019. Ninety-five percent of these shipments were  imported from suppliers located in Asia. We are also piloting a process of moving to ocean transport  for trans-Pacific deliveries. Shipping and port-operations  constraints during COVID-19 have limited our ability to  expand that shift, but our work setting processes and  procedures will facilitate a quicker rollout once conditions  and shipping capacity improve. In Austin, TX, consolidation from multiple regional sites into our new, purpose-built logistics center will dramatically  reduce our overall footprint, significantly cutting electricity consumption and intercampus transportation emissions  and costs. Rooftop solar panels will allow us to offset 40% of the new building’s total electrical consumption,  further reducing our environmental impacts. The new center will begin operation in January 2022, with  consolidation expected by year-end. To Make Possible a Better Future,  Applied Materials’ inclusion and  diversity efforts cannot be limited  to our own workforce goals but  must extend to our supply chain— an imperative the social justice  movement brought into stark  clarity in 2020. With our supplier diversity program as one  of the main pillars of SuCCESS2030, we  have committed to increasing our diverse  spend by at least 2% year on year, through  both existing and newly onboarded diverse  suppliers. In addition, we are partnering with  existing suppliers to pursue their diversity  certifications through the National Minority  Supplier Diversity Council (NMSDC) and  Women’s Business Enterprise National  Council (WBENC). Beyond expanding our diverse supplier base,  we are also working to integrate equity and  inclusion across our procurement operations,  adding resiliency to our supply chain. As  our supplier diversity initiative grows, we Over the long term, we strive to build a  true partnership with our suppliers to drive  diversity throughout our supply chain and to  set a positive example for our industry. are using the RGMA Five Levels of Supplier  Diversity framework to measure our progress  in alignment with other supplier diversity  programs. Our near-term objectives include: Applied Materials’ diverse suppliers must be certified by a third-party  auditor as being at least 51% diverse owned, controlled, and operated by  U.S. minorities (African-American/Black, Hispanic/Latin-American, Native  American, Asian-Pacific American, Asian-Indian American), women, minority  women, LGBTQ, persons with disabilities, veterans, or service-disabled  veterans. Applied Materials also tracks additional diverse suppliers that  could potentially be registered as diverse if they proceed with certification.  As a founding member of SEMI’s Manufacturing Ownership Diversity (MOD)  working group, Applied Materials is working to provide best practices for  supplier diversity in the semiconductor industry. © 2021 Applied Materials, Inc. All rights reserved. Applied Materials, the Applied Materials logo, Make Possible are trademarks of Applied Materials, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks contained herein are the  property of their respective owners. About this Report Published on behalf of Applied Materials, Inc. and its  subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “Applied Materials,”  “Applied,” or “the company”), this report continues the work  begun with our first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  report in 2005. This report builds on Applied’s previous  disclosures and expands transparency through: This report has been prepared in accordance with the  Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core option. A  GRI Index is included in the report Annex. Throughout the  report, we demonstrate alignment and contribution to key  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  Disclosures following the Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board (SASB) Semiconductor Standard are  also provided in the report Annex. We are increasing our  alignment with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial  Disclosures (TCFD) disclosure framework in anticipation  of full TCFD reporting next year. TCFD is discussed in the  report’s Climate and Energy section. Applied Materials produces its Sustainability Report on an  annual basis and data is reported by fiscal year unless clearly  marked otherwise. Report data covers all global operations  unless otherwise noted. In 2021, Applied Materials  completed the process of migrating its environmental data  tracking to a new, more robust system called Intelex SPI.  With this transition, Applied Materials has identified updates  and corrections to its 2019 environmental data, which have  been incorporated throughout the report and Annex. Limited assurance of select indicators included in the  Sustainability Report and Annex has been conducted by  ERM CVS, whose assurance statement is provided on page  74. Further, all Applied manufacturing sites maintain ISO  14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 certifications, which  require annual third-party audit of our management systems  and processes. This report contains forward-looking statements, including  our commitments, targets, and other statements that are not  historical facts. These statements are subject to risks and  uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially  from those expressed or implied by such statements are  set forth in the “Risk Factors” of our SEC filings, including  our recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K. All forward-looking  statements are based on management’s current estimates,  projections, and assumptions, and we assume no obligation  to update them. ERM Certification and Verification Services (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by Applied Materials, Inc. to  provide assurance in relation to the performance data set out below and presented in the Applied  Materials 2020 Sustainability Report (the “Report”) for the FY2020 reporting period from October 28,  2019 to October 25, 2020. Assurance level  Limited assurance. Whether the FY2020 performance data for the following indicators are fairly presented, in all  material aspects, with the reporting criteria.     GHG Emissions1: 1Calendar year reporting period. WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2  GHG emissions, OSHA Injury and Illness Recordkeeping and Reporting definitions, and Applied  Materials’ internal reporting criteria and definitions for community impact and workforce data. ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance  Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Applied Materials is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of  the performance data and information within it.   ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance  activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. •  Female representation – Global and US workforce (including New College Graduates,  excluding interns) by category (career level and engineering specifically) [Executives,  Managers, Professionals] [%]  •  Ethnicity & Race Representation of the U.S. Workforce [%]  •  Female representation of new hires, interns and New College Graduates [%] (US only)  •  Voluntary turnover – Global rate [%] and Global rate by gender [%]  Health & Safety: Beth Wyke   Partner, Head of Corporate Assurance Services  29 June 2021    ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  www.ermcvs.com  Email: post@ermcvs.com   ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent  assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we  undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this  assurance engagement provide no consultancy related services to Applied Materials in any respect. The limitations of our engagement  The reliability of the assured performance data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for  determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusion in  this context. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any third party using or placing reliance on  our opinion in order to make a decisions related to Applied Materials.     For the assurance of the intensity metrics included in the scope of this engagement, ERM CVS has place reliance on the  SEC 10K annual filing stated revenue which has been taken as read.     Prior to our assurance engagement, travel restrictions were imposed following the outbreak of COVID-19. As a result of  these, we agreed to replace in person head office and site visits with ‘virtual’ visits via conference and video calls for this  year’s assurance engagement. While we believe these changes do not affect our limited assurance conclusion above, we  draw attention to the possibility that if we had undertaken in person visits, we may have identified errors and omissions in the  assured information that we did not discover through the alternative assurance program.     Our Observations   We have provided Applied Materials with a separate Management Report with our detailed findings and recommendations.  Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have the following key observation:    During this engagement, Applied Materials has identified opportunities to improve its global environmental reporting  procedures and management of change processes. Our conclusion  Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2020 performance data  listed under ‘Scope of our assurance engagement’ above are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting  criteria.    Our assurance activities    Our objective was to assess whether the performance data in scope are reported in accordance with the principles of  completeness, comparability (across the organisation) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion  factors and consolidation).  We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we  believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusion.     A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a range of assurance procedures which  varied across the scope covered by our assurance engagement, as follows:      A review of internal reporting guidelines, including conversion factors, estimations and assumptions used and  reporting systems and controls used;    A walk-through of the systems used for each indicator group (Workforce, Environmental, Health & Safety and  Community Impact data programs);    Interviews with data owners at corporate level (e.g. environmental, social, health & safety and community impact);    An analytical review of 2020 full year data by conducting a year-over-year analysis per site for the selected  indicators which included testing the completeness and accuracy of data;    Virtual site visits to four countries (Israel, Singapore, Taiwan and USA) to understand local reporting processes,  data management and reporting;     Desktop review of underlying source data for site visits and for renewable energy calculations;    A review alignment of indicators with the established reporting criteria;     Virtual head office visit to review outcomes of Applied Materials internal QA/QC process – including changes made  including reviewing changes made to 2020 data following the findings from the site visits carried out; and    Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency  with our findings.