BOARD OF DIRECTORS  (as of September 23, 2020)    Edward Barnholt  Chairman of the Board  KLA Corporation    Robert Calderoni  Chairman  Citrix Systems, Inc.    Jeneanne Hanley  Former SVP and President  E-Systems Division  Lear Corporation    Emiko Higashi  Managing Director and Founder  Tohmon Capital Partners, LLC    Kevin Kennedy  Chief Executive Officer  Quanergy Systems, Inc.    Gary Moore  Chief Executive Officer  ServiceSource International, Inc.    Marie Myers  Chief Transformation Officer  HP Inc.    Kiran Patel  Former EVP and GM  Small Business Group   Intuit, Inc. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.  Except for historical statements, the letter to our  stockholders in this report contains certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of  the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Investors are cautioned to  consult KLA Corporation’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for further information regarding,  and risks related to, our business.  These documents are available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We  expressly assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements in the letter to our stockholders  contained in this report. Victor Peng  President and CEO  Xilinx, Inc.    Robert Rango  President and CEO  Enevate Corporation    Richard Wallace  President and CEO  KLA Corporation INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC  ACCOUNTING FIRM    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  San Jose, California    TRANSFER AGENT/REGISTRAR    Computershare Investor Services  P.O. Box 505000  Louisville, Kentucky Additional copies of this report may  be obtained by calling Investor  Relations at 408.875.3000 CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS    One Technology Drive  Milpitas, California 95035  408.875.3000  www.kla.com GLOBAL OFFICES    KLA has offices around the globe.   For a complete list of locations go  to: www.kla.com Fellow Shareholders:    No look-back at KLA’s 2020 fiscal year is possible without recognizing the impact the COVID-19 pandemic  has had on all aspects of our realities for a significant portion of the year. At KLA, our first priority has  always been the health and safety of our employees, their families, and our partners. We have managed  to adapt quickly and successfully by implementing work from home policies for our global workforce and  establishing and adhering to rigorous health and safety protocols for our essential manufacturing and  customer-facing teams.     I’m pleased to report that these protocols and policies have been successfully established without  disrupting our ability to deliver for our customers. Additionally, our long-term R&D roadmap remains on  track. We expect remote working scenarios to be the “new normal” until such time as COVID-19 is no  longer a threat to our employees’ health and safety, and we return to normal business operations. We  continue to benchmark health and safety protocols utilized by our peers and other industry leaders and  have adjusted as appropriate for local conditions. Our actions to date have been effective as reflected in  our strong financial results in fiscal 2020, and more importantly, in our safety record to this point in the  pandemic.    Additionally, we acted to support our communities by creating a KLA Foundation Global Relief Fund, which  committed 2 million dollars in global relief efforts to benefit local nonprofit organizations working in areas  identified as having high numbers of affected individuals and those who are working with high-risk  populations in Asia, Europe, Israel, and the United States. Above all, we remain advocates for the holistic  health and safety of our employees as well as the communities where they live and work.     At KLA, we believe in the power of technology to make the world a brighter place    For decades, KLA has built on its global leadership in enabling the advancement of the most significant  technological breakthroughs. We make a lasting impact by creating solutions that drive technological  progress and transform industries. Essential to accomplishing this are our leading-edge technology  systems and software that power the most complex inspection, metrology, and computational analytics  required by the world’s largest semiconductor and electronics manufacturers. Our solutions help make  tomorrow’s advanced next-generation electronics devices a reality. Whether it’s a driverless car, VR  experience, or factory robotics to power automation and Industry 4.0, we help turn theory into  possibility.    We are innovators who help create next-generation technologies and ideas that transform our future and  shape lives. KLA is proud to be part of the most significant technological breakthroughs in history. From  our ground-breaking mask inspection tool in 1976 that signaled the dawn of in-production line  semiconductor process control, to 1997’s defining acquisition of Tencor Instruments that strengthened  our metrology portfolio, to today’s state-of-the-art broadband plasma inspection systems that discover  defects no other systems can, to new breakthrough technology that raises e-beam inspection  performance to a new level, we are passionate about solving the most daunting metrology and  inspection challenges for our customers to help turn their ideas and designs into reality. With the  addition of Orbotech, we have expanded this vision more broadly across the electronics ecosystem.  The  passion that helped start and guide KLA remains very strong today, and the future is ours to create.     Our passion is guided by experience: The KLA Operating Model    We have learned from experience that passion alone is not enough to enable us to deliver long-term  growth and consistently deliver on our commitments. KLA’s strength is also a function of the unique KLA For many years, we’ve run our business with three disciplines that come together to define the KLA  Operating Model. First, we apply common practices and discipline for consistent strategy and execution.  Second, we manage by metrics and operate with an expectation of continuous improvement. And third,  we always operate our company with financial discipline and rigor with a constant focus on enhancing  shareholder value. These disciplines helped guide our strong results in fiscal 2020 against the backdrop of  unprecedented challenges from the COVID-19 pandemic. Our strong results are a further testament to  how the KLA Operating Model provides a reliable, resilient framework to execute our strategic objectives.     Fiscal 2020 financial results demonstrate growth, resiliency and strength under extraordinary  conditions    KLA’s performance in fiscal 2020 demonstrated strong growth, profitability, and shareholder returns in  the face of a global pandemic, trade tensions, and a memory industry downturn.    Total fiscal 2020 revenue grew 27% to $5.8 billion (including the Orbotech acquisition contribution), and  diluted net income per share attributable to KLA rose to $7.70. After investing in our people, products  and future, we generated $1.6 billion in free cash flow in fiscal 2020. We returned $1.35 billion or 83% of  free cash flow to our shareholders in the form of $522 million in quarterly dividends and total stock  repurchases of $829 million. Our quarterly dividend in September 2019 increased 13% to $0.85 per share,  marking the 10th consecutive year of a dividend increase. In August of 2020, we announced another  quarterly dividend increase to $0.90 per share, extending our streak to 11 straight years of dividend  increases.     In addition, we executed a refinancing in the year to retire debt and extend maturities of existing debt.  Our balance sheet also remained very strong, resulting in a credit rating upgrade. We will continue to be  disciplined in executing our capital management strategy: investing in and strengthening our competitive  advantages, growing free cash flow per share over the long term and returning greater than 70% of free  cash flow to the company’s owners over the long-term. culture and expertise that has evolved over the decades into what we define as the KLA Operating  Model. We introduced our KLA Operating Model externally during our September 2019 investor day and  believe it helps codify our corporate values and operating principles, providing a framework for the  execution of our long-term Strategic Objectives that enable us to thrive over the long-term. Strong revenue growth, improving profitability illustrate the early success of the Orbotech acquisition     Fiscal 2020 included the first full year of revenue from the Orbotech acquisition. We ended the year with  record quarterly revenue from two of the three acquired Orbotech business units, demonstrating the  early success of our diversification, growth and synergy strategies. Global demand trends such as 5G,  artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) continue to drive growth across key industries in  mobile, data center and virtual connectivity applications. The strong demand momentum in these  markets is leading to innovation across specialty semiconductor process, advanced packaging and PCB  manufacturing to enable new capabilities while supporting increasing quality requirements in  manufacturing. KLA is playing a critical role in enabling the growth of these new markets.     Our M&A approach remains focused on companies with leading positions in their respective markets that  feature complementary and synergistic technologies and services to augment our own market-leading  portfolio. We then assertively integrate these businesses, applying product and technology development  discipline and operational processes guided by the KLA Operating Model. The targeted outcome is to  drive growth, realize synergies, strengthen our services business and implement efficiency improvements  to maximize overall operating leverage.     Third-party market research highlights KLA growing market leadership in Process Control    We were pleased to see KLA’s strong and consistent market leadership further validated in 2019 by third- party market share analysis from Gartner, published in April 2020. The report concludes that the Process  Control industry grew as a percent of overall wafer front-end equipment (WFE), and KLA meaningfully  increased its market share leadership in the year. Fiscal 2020 marked record or near-record demand in  KLA’s core franchise markets such as Optical Wafer Inspection, Overlay Metrology and Mask Inspection.  The data also shows KLA’s successful re-entry into the e-beam market with our first meaningful e-beam  inspection revenue since 2015. KLA’s market leadership results from ongoing, successful execution of the  company’s customer-focused strategy, which is based on investing a high level of R&D to drive  differentiation with a targeted portfolio of products, technologies and strategies that addresses the most  critical process control challenges our customers face. It is gratifying to see the success of our strategies  being validated by our customers’ most important purchasing decisions.       Service business grew 26% in fiscal 2020    KLA’s subscription-like services business continues to deliver excellent revenue growth while  simultaneously generating strong and predictable free cash flow. Further boosted by service revenues  attributable to our newly acquired Orbotech business and growth throughout the KLA installed base, KLA’s  total Service revenue grew 26% to $1.48 billion in fiscal 2020, with over 75% of semiconductor process  control revenue now being generated from subscription-like service contracts, up from over 70%  previously. This performance continues to give us high levels of confidence that KLA’s Services business  can deliver targeted long-term annual revenue growth rates of 9% to 11%, or more than double the  underlying growth of the WFE market. Several factors drive growth in our services business, including  increasing complexity of our systems, expansion of the installed base and expanded demand at the trailing  edge nodes. With high fab utilization in foundry and logic and signs of improvement in memory, our  customers are also looking for opportunities to enhance productivity and extend the life of their installed  base. As a result, we see continued robust service contract penetration, with our service business  providing a steady, recurring revenue and free cash flow. A look ahead to KLA’s priorities in the post COVID-19 world    Throughout the experience of the past six months, our worldwide teams have never lost sight of what our  customers need, and our passion for making the world a brighter place. Our teams have been  exceptionally resourceful and committed to executing our customers’ most pressing needs and  challenges. Customer feedback has been outstanding, and KLA is consistently delivering on its  commitments. For our global employee base, we recognize that this crisis also extends well beyond  disruption to their work-life, and we are focused on continuing to ensure that we are supporting them in  any way we can.    Looking ahead, investment in the long-term remains a critical priority for us. The future is our canvas, and  we are confident that our R&D investments will help enable the industries’ most complex product  roadmap challenges. We are encouraged by our business continuity actions’ effectiveness, which has  allowed our R&D activities to adapt and continue during this pandemic.     We remain committed to running the KLA Operating Model to create long-term value    We are proud of the way we have responded to these challenges guided by the KLA Operating Model and  reflecting the extraordinary strength of our teams, led by KLA’s Core Values of Perseverance, Drive to be  Better, High Performing Teams, Honest, Forthright, Consistent (HFC) and Indispensability. On behalf of all  of us at KLA, we hope you and your families are safe and in good health, and we thank you for your  continued support of our company.     Sincerely, Richard P. Wallace  President and Chief Executive Officer DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (“Proxy Statement”), and to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120  days after the registrant’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new  or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  �  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal  control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or  issued its audit report. �  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes  �    No  �  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant based upon the closing price of the  registrant’s stock, as of December 31, 2019, was approximately $27.90 billion.  The registrant had 155,461,444 shares of common stock outstanding as of July 20, 2020. Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share  KLAC  The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC      The NASDAQ Global Select Market Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  �    No  �  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes �    No  �  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing  requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  �    No  �  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required  to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that  the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes  �    No  �  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an  emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company”  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Delaware  04-2564110  (State or other jurisdiction of  incorporation or organization)    (I.R.S. Employer  Identification No.) UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549 Item 1.  Business  1  Item 1A.  Risk Factors  21  Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments  37  Item 2.  Properties  37  Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  37  Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures  37 Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases  of Equity Securities  37  Item 6.  Selected Financial Data  39  Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  40  Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  59  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  60 Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  117  Item 11.  Executive Compensation  117  Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related  Stockholder Matters  117  Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  117  Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services  ���� Exhibit Index  122  Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary  123 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  113  Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  116  Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures  116  Item 9B.  Other Information  117 Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  118  Signatures  119  INDEX   Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  ii This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933  and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward- looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as “may,” “will,”  “could,” “would,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “relies,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “intends,”  “potential,” “continue,” “thinks,” “seeks,” or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking  statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Such forward-looking  statements include, among others, the future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; forecasts of the future results of our  operations, including profitability; orders for our products and capital equipment generally; sales of semiconductors; the  investments by our customers in advanced technologies and new materials; the allocation of capital spending by our customers  (and, in particular, the percentage of spending that our customers allocate to process control); growth of revenue in the  semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry and our business; technological trends in the  semiconductor industry; future developments or trends in the global capital and financial markets; our future product offerings  and product features; the success and market acceptance of new products; timing of shipment of backlog; our future product  shipments and product and service revenues; our future gross margins; our future research and development expenses and  selling, general and administrative expenses; our ability to successfully maintain cost discipline; international sales and  operations; our ability to maintain or improve our existing competitive position; success of our product offerings; creation and  funding of programs for research and development; attraction and retention of employees; results of our investment in leading  edge technologies; the effects of hedging transactions; the effect of the sale of trade receivables and promissory notes from  customers; our future effective income tax rate; our recognition of tax benefits; the effects of any audits or litigation; future  payments of dividends to our stockholders; the completion of any acquisitions of third parties, or the technology or assets  thereof; benefits received from any acquisitions and development of acquired technologies; sufficiency of our existing cash  balance, investments, cash generated from operations and the unfunded portion of our revolving line of credit under a Credit  Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) to meet our operating and working capital requirements, including debt service and  payment thereof; future dividends, and stock repurchases; our compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit  Agreement; the adoption of new accounting pronouncements including ASC 842 and ASC 606; the tax liabilities resulting from  the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; and our repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this report. Factors  that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in  this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in Item 1, “Business” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this report. You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks  described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q that we will file in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance  on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking  statements in this report after the date hereof. Additional information about KLA is available at www.kla.com. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on  Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d)  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the website as soon as reasonably  practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Information contained on KLA’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or KLA’s  other filings with the SEC.  Additionally, these filings may be obtained through the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and  information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Investors and others should note that KLA announces material financial information to investors using an investor  relations website (ir.kla.com), including SEC filings, press releases, public earnings calls and conference webcasts. These  channels are used to communicate with the public about the company, products, services and other matters. KLA’s core focus is the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor fabrication process begins with a bare silicon  wafer—a round disk that is typically 200 millimeters or 300 millimeters in diameter, about as thick as a credit card and gray in  color. The process of manufacturing wafers is highly sophisticated and involves the creation of large ingots of silicon by pulling  them out of a vat of molten silicon. The ingots are then sliced into wafers. Prime silicon wafers are then polished to a mirror KLA’s suite of advanced products, coupled with its unique yield management software and services, allow us to deliver  the solutions our semiconductor, printed circuit board and display customers need to achieve their productivity goals by  significantly reducing their risks and costs and improving their overall profitability and returns on investment.   In the PCB, Display and Component Inspection segment, KLA enables electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test  and measure PCBs, flat panel displays (“FPDs”) and ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired electronic circuitry on the  relevant substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces. KLA Corporation (“KLA” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we” or “our”) is a global leader in process control  and a supplier of process-enabling solutions for a broad range of industries, including semiconductors, printed circuit boards  ("PCBs") and displays. We provide solutions for manufacturing and testing wafers and reticles, integrated circuits (“IC” or  “chip”), packaging, light emitting diodes, power devices, compound semiconductor devices, microelectromechanical systems,  data storage, printed circuit boards, flat and flexible panel displays, and general materials research, as well as providing  contracted and comprehensive installation and maintenance services across our installed base. KLA was formed as KLA-Tencor in April 1997 through the merger of KLA Instruments Corporation and Tencor  Instruments, two long-time leaders in the semiconductor equipment industry that began operations in 1975 and 1976,  respectively.  In February 2019, KLA completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) and transformed its organizational  structure into four reportable segments: Semiconductor Process Control; Specialty Semiconductor Process; PCB, Display and  Component Inspection; and Other. Within the Semiconductor Process Control segment, our comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data  analytics products, and related service help integrated circuit manufacturers achieve target yield throughout the entire  semiconductor fabrication process—from research and development (“R&D”) to final volume production. KLA’s differentiated  products and services are designed to provide comprehensive solutions to help customers accelerate development and  production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields and improve their overall profitability. In the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment, KLA develops and sells advanced vacuum deposition and etching  process tools, which are used by a broad range of specialty semiconductor customers, including manufacturers of  microelectromechanical systems (“MEMS”), radio frequency (“RF”) communication chips, and power semiconductors for  automotive and industrial applications. Certain industry and technical terms used in this section are defined in the subsection entitled “Glossary” found at the end  of this Item 1. PART I    ITEM  1.  BUSINESS By developing new process control and yield management tools that help chipmakers accelerate the adoption and  production of these new technologies at scale, KLA enables customers to better leverage increasingly expensive facilities and  improve return on investment (“ROI”). Once customers’ production lines are operating at high volume, KLA’s systems monitor  to ensure yields are stable and process excursions are identified for quick resolution. In addition, each new generation’s smaller  design rules, coupled with new materials and device innovation, increased in-process variability, which requires a subsequent  increase in inspection and metrology sampling. KLA systems not only analyze defectivity and metrology issues at critical points in the wafer, reticle and IC  manufacturing processes, but also provide information to our customers so they can identify and address the underlying process  problems. The ability to locate the source of defects and resolve the underlying process issues enables KLA customers to The continuing evolution of semiconductors to smaller geometries and more complex multi-level circuitry has  significantly increased the performance and cost requirements of the capital equipment used to manufacture these devices.  Construction of an advanced wafer fabrication facility today can cost well above $10.00 billion, substantially more than  previous-generation facilities. In addition, chipmakers are demanding increased productivity and higher returns from their  manufacturing equipment and are also seeking ways to extend the performance of their existing equipment. finish. Other, more specialized wafers, such as epitaxial silicon (“epi”), silicon on insulator (“SOI”), gallium nitride (“GaN”)  and silicon carbide (“SiC”) are also common in the semiconductor industry. The manufacturing cycle of an IC is grouped into three phases: design, fabrication and testing. IC design involves the  architectural layout of the circuit, as well as design verification and reticle generation. The fabrication of a chip is accomplished  by depositing a series of film layers that act as conductors, semiconductors or insulators on bare wafers. The deposition of these  film layers is interspersed with numerous other process steps that create circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and  perform other functions such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. Most advanced chip designs require hundreds of  individual steps, many of which are performed multiple times. The majority of chips consist of two main structures: the lower  structure, typically consisting of transistors or capacitors which perform the “smart” functions; and the upper “interconnect”  structure, typically consisting of circuitry which connects the components in the lower structure. When the layers on the wafer  have been fabricated, each chip on the wafer is tested for functionality. The wafer is then cut into individual chips, and the chips  that pass functional testing are packaged. Final testing is performed on all packaged chips. Packaged chips are then mounted  onto PCBs for connection to the rest of the electronic system. Additionally, flat panel displays are manufactured using  processes similar to ICs (e.g., film deposition, photolithography, etching) except using glass as the starting substrate. The semiconductor equipment industry is currently experiencing multiple growth drivers bolstered by demand for chips  from leading edge foundry and logic manufacturers to support computational power and connectivity for markets such as  artificial intelligence (“AI”) and 5G wireless technology. Growth of the virtual interaction driven by COVID-19 related travel  restrictions and quarantines as well as work from home requirements, advances in healthcare and industrial application together  with the increasing adoption of electrical vehicles and intelligence in automobiles are powering leading-edge node technology  investments and capacity expansions. Intertwined in these areas, spurred by the requirements of big data, is the growth in  demand for memory chips. Finally, China continues to emerge as a major region for manufacturing of logic and memory chips,  adding to its role as the world’s largest consumer of ICs. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic  manufacturing capacity. China is currently seen as an important long-term growth region for the semiconductor capital  equipment sector. Companies that anticipate future market demands by developing and refining new technologies and manufacturing  processes are better positioned to lead in the semiconductor market. Accelerating the yield ramp and maximizing production  yields of high-performance devices are key goals of modern semiconductor manufacturing. Ramping to high-volume  production ahead of competitors can dramatically increase the revenue an IC manufacturer realizes for a given product. Leading  semiconductor manufacturers are investing in simultaneous production integration of multiple new process technologies, some  requiring new substrate and film materials, new geometries, advanced multi-patterning and EUV lithography, and advanced  packaging techniques. While many of these technologies have been adopted at the development and pilot production stages of  chip manufacturing, significant challenges and risks associated with each technology have affected the adoption of these  technologies into full-volume production. For example, as design rules decrease, yields become more sensitive to the size and  density of defects, and device performance characteristics (namely speed, capacity or power management) become more  sensitive to parameters such as linewidth and film thickness variation. New process materials, such as photoresists for EUV  lithography, require extensive characterization before they can be used in the manufacturing process. Moving several of these  advanced technologies into production at once only adds to the risks that chipmakers face. The semiconductor industry continually introduces numerous technology changes to support this multi-segmented market  growth. KLA’s inspection, metrology and data analytics technologies play key roles in enabling our customers to develop and  manufacture advanced semiconductor devices to support and innovate around these trends. KLA’s SPTS group, a semiconductor processing business from the Orbotech acquisition, develops and sells differentiated  custom deposition and etching solutions for fast-growing markets, such as power and analog devices, RF communication chips  and MEMS. These devices, which are often built on non-traditional substrates like SiC and GaN, have become critical to  accelerating some of the secular trends in automotive, industrial and communication industries. Infrastructure build-out for 5G  creates demand for RF components, new SiC and GaN based power devices are moving into volume production for electric  vehicles, and high-density packaging is growing to support AI. KLA provides a comprehensive portfolio of PCB tools, services and solutions to accelerate technology transitions and  production ramp. Our portfolio includes inline inspection tools to monitor the quality of printed circuit board fabrication,  equipment to repair defective boards, digital imaging technologies to print fine geometry according to the design, and computer  aided manufacturing (“CAM”) software. Growth in the PCB business is driven mainly by investments in 5G technology and its  supporting applications: smartphones, autonomous vehicles, AI and cloud servers/high performance computing. These  applications will be based on several technological segments including flexible printed circuits (“FPCs”), high density  interconnect (“HDI”), PCBs, and IC substrates. KLA also provides complete yield management solutions for the FPD market including automated optical inspection  systems, repair technologies and electrical testers. An accelerated transition to organic light emitting diode (“OLED”) displays  to serve the mobile market, introduction of OLED technology for large size TVs, and a steep ramp in liquid crystal display  (“LCD”) production for televisions in China are driving the flat panel display business. New technologies, such as microLED,  represent a growth opportunity for KLA in the display market. KLA develops industry-leading equipment and services that enable innovation throughout the electronics industry. We  provide advanced process control and process-enabling solutions for manufacturing wafers, reticles, integrated circuits,  packaging, printed circuit boards, and flat and flexible panel displays. KLA’s inspection, metrology and data analytics products and related offerings can be broadly categorized as supporting  customers in the following groups: Chip and Wafer Manufacturing; Reticle Manufacturing; Packaging Manufacturing;  Compound Semiconductor and Hard Disk Drive Manufacturing; and General Purpose/Lab Applications. Orbotech’s inspection,  repair, imaging, laser drilling and electrical testing support customers in Printed Circuit Board Manufacturing and Flexible and  Flat Panel Display Manufacturing. SPTS’s wafer processing equipment supports customers in Advanced Packaging  Manufacturing and manufacturing of semiconductor devices such as MEMS, high speed RF ICs, power semiconductors and  LEDs. Some of the company’s more significant products are described below and are also included in the broader product table  at the end of this “Products” section. KLA’s wafer defect inspection and review systems cover a broad range of applications for IC and substrate  manufacturers, including research and development, wafer qualification, reticle qualification, and tool, process and line  monitoring. Patterned and unpatterned wafer inspectors find particles, pattern defects and electrical issues on the front surface,  back surface and edge of the wafer, allowing engineers to detect and monitor critical yield and reliability excursions. Our defect  review systems capture high resolution images of the defects detected by inspection tools, helping substrate manufacturers and  chipmakers identify and resolve yield issues. Fabs rely on our high sensitivity reticle inspection systems to identify defects on  reticles at an early stage and to prevent reticle defects from printing on production wafers. By implementing our defect improve control over the manufacturing processes, increasing their yield of high-performance parts and delivering products to  market faster—thus maximizing profits. With a broad portfolio of application-focused technologies and dedicated yield  technology expertise, KLA is in position to be a key supplier of comprehensive yield management solutions for customers’  next-generation products. KLA helps customers respond to the challenges posed by shrinking device sizes, the transition to new  production materials, new device and circuit architectures, more demanding lithography processes, and new packaging  techniques. KLA’s comprehensive portfolio of defect inspection, review, metrology, patterning simulation, in situ process monitoring  and data analytics products, and related service, software and other offerings, helps substrate and chip manufacturers manage  quality throughout wafer and chip fabrication processes. These offerings are designed to help our customers accelerate their  development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields, and improve their overall  profitability. Magnetic random-access memory (“MRAM”) manufacturing requires the control of deposition, annealing, magnetization  and etch of very thin ferromagnetic layers. These memory cells can make up a standalone memory chip or are embedded into a The SpectraFilm and Aleris film metrology systems provide precise measurement of film thickness, refractive index,  stress and composition for a broad range of film layers. The SpectraFilm F1 film metrology system, employs optical  technologies that determine single- and multi-layer film thicknesses and uniformity with high precision to monitor deposition  processes in production, and deliver bandgap data used to predict device electrical performance earlier than end of line test. The PWG3 and PWG2 patterned wafer geometry metrology systems measure stress-induced wafer shape, wafer shape- induced pattern overlay errors, wafer thickness variations and wafer dual-sided topography for a wide range of IC  manufacturing processes. This data is used for inline monitoring of fab processes, overlay corrections and scanner focus  control, enabling improved patterning and faster yield ramp. Our WaferSight bare wafer geometry metrology systems are used  by substrate manufacturers to qualify polished and epitaxial silicon wafers, engineered and other advanced substrates.  The Archer Series of imaging-based overlay metrology systems enable characterization of overlay error on lithography  process layers for advanced patterning technologies. These systems include the Archer 750, launched during the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2020, which utilizes wavelength tunability to produce accurate overlay measurements. The ATL Series of  scatterometry-based overlay metrology systems utilize tunable laser technology to accurately measure overlay error  measurements in the presence of production process variations. KLA’s metrology solutions address IC and substrate manufacturing, as well as scientific research and other applications.  Precise metrology and control of pattern dimensions, film thicknesses, layer-to-layer alignment, pattern placement, surface  topography, electro-optical and electromagnetic properties are important in many industries as devices are becoming more  complex with shrinking critical dimensions and narrowing film thicknesses. The SpectraShape optical CD and shape metrology systems characterize and monitor the critical dimensions (“CDs”) and  3D shapes of geometrically complex features incorporated by some IC manufacturers into their latest generation devices. These  systems include the SpectraShape 11k metrology system, launched during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, which precisely  measures the CDs and three-dimensional shapes of finFET, 3D NAND and other complex IC device structures at critical  process steps. inspection and review systems, chipmakers and substrate manufacturers can take quick corrective action, resulting in faster  quality improvement and better time to market. For patterned wafer optical inspection, we provide our 3920 Series, 3900 Series, 2950 Series, 2930 Series, 2920 Series,  2910 Series and 2900 Series (high resolution broadband plasma defect inspection); the Voyager 1015 (laser scanning defect  inspection); the Puma 9980 Series, Puma 9850 Series and Puma 9650 Series (laser scanning defect inspection); our 8 Series  systems, including the 8930, introduced in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, (high productivity defect inspection); and our  CIRCL cluster tool (defect inspection, review and metrology of all wafer surfaces – front side, edge and backside). Our eDR7380 electron-beam (e-beam) wafer defect review and classification system produces a comprehensive defect  pareto in one test for accurate defect sourcing during production. Unique synergy with our inspectors facilitates identification  and classification of patterned wafer, bare wafer and bevel edge defects for faster yield learning during IC and wafer  manufacturing. Our eSL10 electron-beam (“e-beam”) patterned wafer defect inspection system was launched during the fiscal year  ending June 30, 2020. The eSL10 detects very small defects, including those at the bottom of deep trenches and contact holes,  helping chipmakers accelerate development and ramp of advanced logic and memory devices. For unpatterned wafer inspection, we provide our Surfscan SP7, Surfscan SP5 and Surfscan SP3 inspectors. These  Surfscan Series systems find defects on bare wafers, smooth films and rough films. We also offer our SURFmonitor technology  for surface quality measurements and capture of low-contrast defects. For wafer manufacturers, the Surfscan Series detects  defects and assesses surface quality during the development and production of polished wafers, epi wafers and engineered  substrates. These systems also play a critical role in determining outgoing substrate quality. For chip manufacturers, the  Surfscan systems qualify incoming bare wafers, and qualify and monitor processes from development through production. For  original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and materials suppliers, the Surfscan Series support process development and  process tool qualification. For in-fab reticle qualification, we offer the Teron SL650 Series and X5.3 reticle inspection systems. These inspectors  allow IC fabs to qualify incoming reticles and inspect production reticles for contaminants and other process-related changes. The Teron 640e reticle inspection system detects critical pattern and particle defects at high throughput for the  development and qualification of leading-edge EUV and optical patterned reticles. Our reticle inspection portfolio also includes  the Teron 600 Series for development and manufacturing of advanced optical and EUV reticles, the TeraScan 500XR system  for production of reticles for the 32nm node and above, and our X5.3 and Teron SL650 Series products for reticle quality  control in IC fabs. In addition, we offer the LMS IPRO Series of reticle registration metrology systems for measuring mask pattern  placement error. If the pattern on the reticle is displaced from its intended location, overlay error can result on the wafer, which  can lead to electrical continuity issues affecting yield, performance or reliability of the IC device. RDC is a comprehensive data analysis and storage platform that supports multiple KLA reticle inspection and metrology  platforms for mask shops and IC fabs.  The FlashScan reticle blank inspection product line is used by blank manufacturers for defect control during process  development and volume manufacturing, and by mask shops for incoming inspection, tool monitoring and process control. Error-free reticles, or masks, are necessary to achieve high semiconductor device yields, since reticle defects can be  replicated in every die on production wafers. KLA offers high sensitivity reticle inspection, metrology and data analytics  systems for mask blank manufacturers and reticle manufacturers (“mask shops”) to help them manufacture reticle blanks and  patterned reticles that are free of defects and meet pattern placement and critical dimension uniformity specifications. The OVALiS Software Suite joined our data analytics product portfolio through the acquisition of Qoniac GmbH during  the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. OVALiS supports on-product process optimization, diagnostics, monitoring and control  for lithography and other patterning steps that are critical to IC manufacturing. Our 5D Analyzer advanced data analysis and  patterning control system offers an extendible, open architecture that accepts data from a wide range of metrology and process  tools to enable advanced analysis, characterization and real-time control of fab-wide process variations. Our Klarity automated  defect and yield analysis systems help IC manufacturers reduce defect inspection, classification and review data to relevant  root-cause and yield-analysis information. Our RDC reticle data analysis and management system provides data used for in-fab  reticle qualification. Our FabVision data management system offers fab-wide data management and automated yield analysis  for wafer manufacturers. KLA’s SensArray portfolio includes advanced wireless and wired wafers and reticles that enable in situ monitoring of the  production process environment for many semiconductor, flat panel display and reticle fabrication processes, and fab-wide  monitoring of automated wafer handling. Introduced in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the EtchTemp-HD in situ wafer  temperature measurement system enables across-wafer temperature monitoring that strongly correlates with CD uniformity  control for conductor etch applications, while the MaskTemp 2 in situ reticle temperature measurement system is used by  reticle manufacturers for qualification and monitoring of e-beam writers and high temperature reticle process steps. KLA’s PROLITH computational lithography software is used by researchers at advanced IC manufacturers, lithography  hardware suppliers, track companies and material providers to explore critical feature designs, manufacturability and process- limited yield of proposed lithographic and patterning technologies without the time and expense of printing hundreds of test  wafers using experimental materials and prototype process equipment. logic chip when the chip is getting close to completion. At this late stage, the value of the chip is high so the MRAM cell must  be carefully controlled to maintain high yield. KLA offers several systems for manufacturing control of MRAM processes,  including the CAPRES CIPTech and microHall series, and the MicroSense PKMRAM and KerrMapper systems. The data generated by our inspection, metrology and in situ process monitoring systems are compiled and reduced to  relevant root cause and yield analysis information with our suite of data analytics and management tools. The increasing demand for MEMS technology is coming from diverse industries such as automotive, space and consumer  electronics. MEMS have the potential to transform many product categories by bringing together silicon-based microelectronics  with micromachining technology, making possible the realization of complete systems-on-a-chip. KLA offers tools and KLA offers a variety of products for the display market, including the ZetaScan Series defect inspector, SensArray  Process Probe 2070, Zeta-300 optical profiler, P-17 OF stylus profiler, and the Nano Indenter nanomechanical tester. KLA offers a portfolio of systems to help LED manufacturers reduce production costs and increase product output:  Candela 8720, WI-2280, 8 Series, UltraMap, MicroXAM and Zeta optical profilers and Tencor P-Series and HRP-Series stylus  profilers. The Candela 8720 substrate and epi wafer inspection system provides automated inspection and quality control of  LED substrates, detecting defects that can impact device performance, yield and field reliability. The WI-2280 system is  designed specifically for defect inspection and 2D metrology for LED applications. The 8 Series provides patterned wafer  defect inspection capability for LED manufacturing. UltraMap provides wafer geometry measurements on sapphire wafers. The  MicroXAM and Zeta optical profilers measure step height, texture and form for LED applications. The P Series and HRP- Series stylus profilers are metrology systems for measurement of step heights and roughness for LED substrates and patterned  wafer applications. The Zeta-388 measures patterned sapphire substrates (“PSS”) and inspects for defects on high brightness  LED substrates. LEDs are becoming more commonly used in solid state lighting, television and notebook backlighting, and automotive  applications. As LED device makers target aggressive cost and performance targets, they place significant emphasis on  improved process control and yield during the manufacturing process. After wafer test and dicing, the detection of hairline cracks in bare dies or in fan-in wafer-level packages is achieved  with the ICOS™ F160 die sorting and inspection system. Once the ICs are fully packaged, ICOS™ T3/T7/T8 series and MV  series of component inspection systems provide automated inspection and metrology capabilities across all different types of  packages for detection of issues that affect final package quality. Modular tool architecture allows for inspection solutions to be  customized to meet the requirements of different package types with varying size and interconnect styles, while allowing for  either tray or tape output. Component inspection capability includes 3D coplanarity inspection, measurement of the evenness of  the contacts, component height and two-dimensional (“2D”) surface inspection. The compound semiconductor market comprises a diverse group of applications including power devices, radio frequency  (“RF”) communications devices, photonics, LED lighting and photovoltaic and display markets. Our primary products for  compound semiconductor manufacturing include the Candela 8520, Candela CS20, 8 Series, WI-2280 inspection systems and  KLA stylus and optical profilers. These products are used for the inspection and metrology of substrates, epitaxial layers and  process films. To support power device manufacturing, tools such as the Candela 8520 inspection system integrates surface defect  detection and photoluminescence technology for inspection and classification of a wide range of defects on SiC substrates and  epi layers. The MicroXAM optical profilers measure step height, texture and form for power device applications. The Tencor P- Series and HRP-Series stylus profilers measure step heights and roughness for SiC substrates and patterned wafer applications.  Leading power device manufacturers are targeting faster development and ramp times, higher product yields and lower  device costs. To achieve these goals, they are implementing solutions for characterizing yield-limiting defects and processes  including full-surface, high sensitivity defect inspection and profiler metrology systems that provide accurate process feedback,  thus improving SiC substrate and epitaxy wafer quality and yield. The Kronos™ patterned wafer inspection system provides high sensitivity to critical defects for advanced wafer-level  packaging production monitoring for processes such as 2.5D/3D IC integration using through silicon vias (“TSVs”), wafer-level  chip scale packaging (“WLCSP”) and fan-out wafer-level packaging (“FOWLP”). We also offer our CIRCL-AP cluster tool,  which features multiple modules to support all-surface wafer-level packaging inspection, metrology and review. Zeta-5xx and  Zeta-6xx optical surface profilers measure both wafers and panels for packaging metrology applications. These applications  include bump height, under-bump metallization (“UBM”) step height, film thickness, and redistribution layer (“RDL”) height  and width. Our KLA Pro group provides fully refurbished systems, remanufactured legacy systems, and enhancements and upgrades  for previous-generation KLA systems. When a customer needs to move to the next manufacturing node, or improve their  manufacturing productivity, KLA’s Pro offerings can help maximize the value of the customer’s existing assets. The Mosaic™ Plasma Dicing solution includes the Rapier-S series of process modules and uses a plasma etch process to  singulate die on full thickness and taped-framed wafers. Because plasma dicing is not a physical process and not restricted by  blade width, chip designers can place die much closer together, increasing die count per wafer. Unlike conventional dicing  techniques, plasma dicing does not chip or crack die, does not generate localized hot-spots, and produces fewer defects. These  characteristics are increasingly important for zero-defect automotive applications and die-to-die bonding. A range of industries, including general scientific and materials research and optoelectronics require measurements of  surface topography and film thickness, to either control their processes or research new material characteristics. Offered under  the KLA Instruments brand, the typical surface metrology parameters that our tools address include flatness, roughness,  curvature, peak-to-valley, asperity, waviness, texture, volume, sphericity, slope, density, stress, hardness, bearing ratio and step  height (mainly in the micron to nanometer range). Film thickness measurements can also include determination of refractive  index. We also offer a portfolio of high-throughput nanomechanical testers for material characterization, including hardness,  modulus and adhesion. Advancements in data storage are being driven by a wave of innovative consumer electronics with small form factors and  immense storage capacities, as well as an increasing need for high-volume storage options to support remote computing and  networking, such as cloud computing. Our process control and yield management solutions are designed to enable customers to  rapidly understand and resolve complex manufacturing problems, which can help improve time to market and product yields.  To support manufacturing of substrates, media and thin film head wafers, we offer a portfolio of metrology and defect  inspection solutions, as highlighted in the product table at the conclusion of this “Products” section. The Sigma® systems deposit conducting and insulating layers by physical vapor deposition (PVD), sometimes referred to  as “sputtering”. For the advanced packaging market, the Sigma system is used to create redistribution and under-bump layers in  fan-in and fan-out packages. For power management devices, thick conductor layers are deposited on the front side of the  wafer, and solderable stacks on the backside. In the RF/MEMS space, the Sigma system is used to deposit uniform, stress- controlled piezoelectric films for bulk acoustic wave (“BAW”) high frequency filters. The Omega® family of plasma etch solutions includes the DSi-v, Rapier™, Synapse™, and ICP process modules. DSi-v  and Rapier deep reactive ion etch (“DRIE”) modules etch large and small structures in silicon MEMS devices such as  microphones, accelerometers and gyroscopes. The Rapier module is also used in advanced packaging to create through-silicon  vias, and to rapidly etch Si wafers to a thickness of 5μm for very high density die stacking. The Synapse module etches strongly  bonded materials such as silicon oxide and glass for photonics, SiC for next generation power switches, and piezoelectric  resonators. The ICP module is used in the manufacture of devices such as RF power amplifiers and vertical cavity surface  emitting lasers (“VCSELs”) and etches materials including silicon nitride, GaN and III-V semiconductors. techniques such as defect inspection and review, optical inspection and surface profiling for this emerging market, as  highlighted in the product table at the conclusion of this “Products” section. SPTS Technologies, a wholly owned subsidiary of KLA, designs, manufactures and markets wafer processing solutions  for the global semiconductor and related industries. It provides etch and deposition processes on a range of single wafer  handling platforms for wafer sizes up to 330mm, as well as 400mm taped frame assemblies. These products include etch and  deposition equipment designed to address advanced IC packaging manufacturing, and also manufacturing of semiconductor and  microelectronic devices such as MEMS, high speed RF IC power semiconductors, and LEDs. The technology and products of  SPTS are used by universities, research institutes, and full-scale production companies. The Delta™ plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (“PECVD”) systems are used for a wide range of dielectric  applications within MEMS, compound semiconductor, photonics and advanced packaging industries. SPTS specializes in  depositing silicon oxide and nitride layers at temperatures below 200°C, with high breakdown strength and tightly controlled  stress, and optical properties. PCB-AOI solutions are computerized, electro-optical systems for inspection and identification of defects in PCBs and  photolithography tools at various stages of production. Orbotech’s AOI solutions include the Ultra Dimension series, the Ultra  Fusion/Fusion series and the Discovery II series. The Ultra Dimension series incorporates pattern inspection, laser via  inspection, remote multi-image verification and two-dimensional metrology, to offer advanced electronics manufacturers a way  to significantly improve their quality and yield. The Ultra Dimension solutions are suitable for advanced IC substrates,  substrate-like PCB (“SLP”), modified semi-additive process (“mSAP”), advanced HDI, flexible printed circuits and more. The  Fusion/Ultra Fusion series inspection solutions include offerings for advanced IC substrates, SLP, mSAP, advanced HDI, Orbotech’s direct imaging (DI) solutions include the Nuvogo series, the Paragon-Ultra series, and the Orbotech Diamond  series. Nuvogo is an advanced DI series for substrate-like PCB (“SLP”), modified semi-additive process (“mSAP”), advanced  high-density interconnect (“HDI”), and flex, rigid-flex and advanced multi-layer boards (“MLB”) PCB mass production. The  Paragon-Ultra series serves complex applications including flip chip ball grid array (“FC-BGA”), flip chip-chip scale package  (“FC-CSP”) and other BGA and CSP substrates. Orbotech Diamond is a high capacity, high throughput DI series for a wide  variety of solder mask applications. Direct imaging technology enables the manufacture of higher density, more complex PCBs, with significantly higher  yields and reduced manufacturing costs, through the elimination of artwork costs and the scrap created by contact printing. The  DI involves the transfer of digital image data directly from the electronic media onto the photoresist or solder resist, thereby  eliminating the need for exposing photoresist through a production photolithography tool. This process translates into fewer  manufacturing steps, lower material costs and greater accuracy of layer-to-layer registration enabling designs with higher  density and miniaturization at high yield. The MVD® system replaces traditional liquid coating processes with a highly reproducible molecular vapor deposition  (“MVD”) alternative that is valuable for MEMS/BioMEMS manufacturing applications. The MVD system is also used for  commercial applications requiring moisture barriers, anti-corrosion coatings, or release layers for imprinting.    The Primaxx® HF Release Etch products are used to remove sacrificial silicon oxide layers, primarily to release silicon  microstructures in MEMS devices. SPTS’s proprietary dry process avoids stiction of released moving parts and subsequent  damage to delicate structures, common issues with conventional wet processing technology. The Xactix® XeF2 Release Etch products are used for isotropic etching of silicon to release MEMS devices. As a vapor  phase etchant, XeF2 avoids many of the problems typically associated with wet or plasma etch processes. Because of the complexity of each step in the process of PCB manufacturing, sophisticated equipment is required in  order to enable manufacturing, especially of high complexity boards where high accuracy is required. Dimensions of PCB  boards change during the manufacturing process and digital printing is required in order to compensate for these changes and  meet demand for high accuracy. PCB's are susceptible to various defects (electrical shorts, open circuits and insufficient or off- measure conductor widths), inspection is required throughout PCB production to identify such defects, which are then repaired,  if possible. Early detection of these defects increases the possibility of successful repair and reduces the number of unusable  boards, thereby reducing the overall cost to the manufacturer. Early detection and repair are particularly valuable in cases of  multilayered and ‘build-up’ boards, wherein PCB layers are embedded inside the finished board. PCBs are the basic interconnect platforms for the electronic components that comprise all electronic equipment. An  assembly of one or more PCBs on which desired components have been mounted forms an essential part of most electronic  products. PCBs are manufactured in a series of complex steps, generally starting with a sheet of epoxy-fiberglass (or other  material with electric insulating qualities), laminated with a conducting material such as copper. The conductor pattern is  subsequently transferred to a photo-imageable layer which is coated over the conductive layer substrate either through a direct  imaging (“DI”) or masked based photolithographic process followed by a chemical development and etching removal process  of excess conducting material, leaving the desired conducting metal pattern printed on the layer. Single wafer platforms: SPTS offers a range of single wafer handling platforms for Omega, Sigma, Mosaic, Delta,  Primaxx, and Xactix systems for volume production, R&D and pilot production environments. KLA’s Orbotech subsidiary manufactures several solutions intended for use by manufacturers of PCBs to streamline and  increase the efficiency and yield of PCB production. Flat Panel Display (“FPDs”), which include liquid-crystal displays (“LCDs”), organic light-emitting diode (“OLED”)  displays and other types of displays, are currently used for laptop and desktop computers, tablets, televisions, smartphones,  public electronic signs, automotive displays, digital and video cameras, augmented reality/virtual reality (“AR/VR”), wearable  devices and a variety of other devices for technical, medical, aerospace and consumer electronics applications. LCDs and  OLEDs are susceptible to various defects, many of which result from the deposition, photolithography and etching processes  used in their production. Detection and repair of these defects during the production process allows manufacturers to improve  monitoring of their production processes, avoid the expense of further costly material and improve their yields. Laser plotters provide PCB manufacturers with the capability to quickly transform circuit designs on electronic media or  design data retrieved from computer aided manufacturing (“CAM”) databases into accurate, reliable artwork for production  photolithography tools. Orbotech’s LP-9 high speed laser plotters are designed for printing high density jobs on film that is  subsequently used in the traditional PCB photolithography process. Orbotech’s FPD AOI and electrical testing systems identify and classify defects that may impact the performance of the  display panel, while our repair systems are designed to enable customers to repair defects, thereby further improving the  manufacturer’s yield and grade (quality) of displays. Additive printing refers to the stage in the PCB manufacturing process during which characters and other non-functional  patterns (“legends”) are printed on the PCB. Using a digital, non-contact, inkjet-based printing technology, digital print heads  release droplets of ink from small apertures directly onto a given medium to create the required image. The Sprint series is our  flagship solution for mass production PCB legend and serialization needs.    Ultraviolet (“UV”) laser drilling is used to generate the interconnection (vias) between different layers in IC substrates for  advanced packaging applications, where traditional mechanical drills or CO2 laser techniques cannot meet small via shape  quality and accuracy specifications. The Emerald 160 UV laser drilling solutions address challenging IC substrate, IC  packaging and flex applications, including skiving and routing. CAM and engineering solutions from Frontline P.C.B. Solutions Limited Partnership (“Frontline”), an Orbotech  subsidiary, are designed for use in the PCB pre-production phase to facilitate automation and integration of the sales, tooling,  production data and inspection needs associated with PCB production. Smart Factory/Industry 4.0 Orbotech Smart Factory is an Industry 4.0 compliant solution that delivers manufacturing intelligence to help  manufacturers increase yield, improve production floor management and better track production trends. Orbotech’s Precise series is an automated solution for shaping both open and shorts defects for increasingly fine  line/space circuitry. The PerFix series addresses excess copper defects for advanced IC substrates, fine line applications,  SLP/mSAP, advanced flex applications, and complex HDI and MLB manufacturing. flexible printed circuits and more. The Discovery II AOI series AOI handles inspection challenges for MLB, quick turnaround  (“QTA”), flex and HDI mass production.      Automated Optical Shaping (“AOS”) AOS solutions are designed to address certain limitations inherent in the manual repair of PCBs by enabling the automatic  shaping of defects in PCB production. Such defects include excess copper (causing electrical shorts) and missing copper  (causing electrical opens). Efficient shaping can reduce the scrapping of unusable panels during the manufacturing process,  enabling a significant reduction in manufacturers’ overall manufacturing costs. Orbotech AOS solutions ablate the excess  conductor material or add copper where missing, and are commonly used for advanced PCBs, where manual repair is not  practical. Our services programs enable our customers in all business sectors to maintain the high performance and productivity of  our products through a flexible array of service options. Whether a manufacturing site is producing integrated circuits, wafers,  reticles, ICs, display or PCB products, our highly trained service teams collaborate with customers to determine the best  products and services to meet technology and business requirements. KLA engages in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various  materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels. Orbotech’s electrical testing systems detect, locate, quantify and characterize electrical, contamination and other defects in  LCD and OLED displays after array fabrication. These systems determine whether individual pixels or lines of pixels are  functional and also identify subtle defects such as variations in individual pixel voltage. These defect data files are then used for  repair and statistical process control. The Array Checker and Accelon systems comprise Orbotech’s electrical testing portfolio. Orbotech’s automated optical inspection solutions accommodate all types of display panels up to and including Gen 10.5.  The Quantum and FPI-6000 product lines inspect and classify defects to boost yield of high-volume LCD and flex OLED  display production. Orbotech OASIS is an artificial intelligence-driven software platform for increased operational efficiency and yield  enhancement of panel display manufacturing. Orbotech OASIS™ delivers actionable manufacturing intelligence to customers,  enabling them to make faster and smarter operational and process control decisions by leveraging advanced algorithms and  machine learning of the data generated by their systems. Orbotech’s Prism and Array Saver systems repair defects of any shape and any pattern for high-end TVs and flex OLED  displays. General Purpose/Lab Applications  Defect Inspection (mask shop)  Teron™ 600 Series, TeraScan™ 500XR  Defect Inspection (wafer fab)  Teron™ SL6xx Series, X5.3™ Smart Factory/Industry 4.0  Orbotech Smart Factory As of June 30, 2020, we employed approximately 4,020 full-time sales and related personnel, service engineers and  applications engineers. In addition to sales and service offices in the United States, we conduct sales, marketing and services  out of subsidiaries or branches in other countries, including China, Germany, Israel, United Kingdom, Japan, Singapore, Korea  and Taiwan. International revenues accounted for approximately 89%, 87%, and 88% of our total revenues in the fiscal years  ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Additional information regarding our revenues from foreign operations for  our last three fiscal years can be found in Note 19, “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” to the Consolidated  Financial Statements. We believe that sales outside the United States will continue to be a significant percentage of our total revenues. Our  future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to compete successfully in Asia, one of the largest markets  for our equipment. Our ability to compete in this area is dependent upon the continuation of favorable trading relationships  between countries in the region and the United States, and our continuing ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with  leading semiconductor companies in the region. Our sales, service and marketing efforts are aimed at building deep long-term relationships with our customers. We focus  on providing comprehensive resources for the full breadth of process control, process-enabling and yield management solutions  for manufacturing and testing wafers and reticles, integrated circuits, packaging, light emitting diodes, power devices,  compound semiconductor devices, microelectromechanical systems, data storage, printed circuit boards and flat and flexible  panel displays, as well as general materials research. Our customers benefit from the simplified planning and coordination, as  well as the increased equipment compatibility, which are realized as a result of dealing with a single supplier for multiple  products and services. Our revenues are derived primarily from product sales and related service contracts, mostly through our  direct sales force. To support our growing global customer base, we maintain a significant presence throughout Asia, the United States and  Europe, staffed with local sales and applications engineers, customer and field service engineers and yield management  consultants. We count among our largest customers the leading semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device  manufacturers in each of these regions. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device  manufacturers, which in turn is driven by the current and anticipated market demand for ICs, products utilizing ICs and other  electronic components. We do not consider our business to be seasonal in nature, but it has historically been cyclical with  respect to the capital equipment procurement practices of semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device  manufacturers, and it is impacted by the investment patterns of such manufacturers in different global markets. Downturns in  the semiconductor or other industries in which we operate, or slowdowns in the worldwide economy as well as customer  consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. We believe that the size and location of our field sales, service and applications engineering, and marketing organizations  represent a competitive advantage in our served markets. We have direct sales forces in Asia, the United States and Europe. We  maintain an export compliance program that is designed to meet the requirements of the United States Departments of  Commerce and State. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.  2020    2019    2018 14  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. International sales and operations may be adversely affected by the imposition of governmental controls, restrictions on  export technology, political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and the difficulties associated with staffing and  managing international operations. In addition, international sales may be adversely affected by the economic conditions in  each country and by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and such fluctuations may negatively impact our ability to  compete on price with local providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business. Although we  attempt to manage some of the currency risk inherent in non-U.S. dollar product sales through hedging activities, there can be  no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. These factors, as well as any of the other risk factors related to our international  business and operations that are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” could have a material adverse effect on our future  business and financial results. Our backlog which represents our performance obligation to deliver products and services, totaled $2.13 billion and  $1.84 billion as of June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and primarily consists of sales orders where written customer requests  have been received and a majority of the delivery is anticipated within the next 12 months. Orders for service contracts and  unreleased products are included in the backlog. All orders are subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the  customer, usually with limited or no penalties. The market for semiconductor and electronics industries is characterized by rapid technological development and product  innovation. These technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate  professional staffing. We believe that continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing  products are necessary to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and  financial resources to research and development programs and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain  responsive to their needs. In addition, we may enter certain strategic development and engineering programs whereby certain  government agencies or other third parties fund a portion of our research and development costs. As of June 30, 2020, we  employed approximately 2,870 full-time research and development personnel.  Because customers can potentially change delivery schedules or delay or cancel orders, and because some orders are  received and shipped within the same quarter, our shipment backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of  business volumes or actual sales for any succeeding periods. The historical cyclicality of the semiconductor industry combined  with the lead times from our suppliers sometimes result in timing disparities between, on the one hand, our ability to  manufacture, deliver and install products and, on the other, the requirements of our customers. In our efforts to balance the  requirements of our customers with the availability of resources, management of our operating model and other factors, we  often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries and installations of  products, which may impact the timing of revenue recognition with respect to such products. Our key research and development activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 involved the development of  process control and process-enabling solutions for a broad range of industries including semiconductors, printed circuit boards  and displays. For information regarding our research and development expenses during the last three fiscal years, see Item 7  “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10- K. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which  is the result of our continuing significant investments in product research and development. Even during down cycles in the  semiconductor industry, we have remained committed to significant engineering efforts toward both product improvement and  new product development in order to enhance our competitive position. New product introductions, however, may contribute to  fluctuations in operating results, since customers may defer ordering existing products, and, if new products have reliability or  quality problems, those problems may result in reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and  payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. There can be no assurance that we will successfully  develop and manufacture new products, or that new products introduced by us will be accepted in the marketplace. If we do not  successfully introduce new products, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We perform system design, assembly and testing in-house and utilize an outsourcing strategy for the manufacture of  components and major subassemblies. Our in-house manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling and testing  components and subassemblies that are acquired through third-party vendors and integrating those subassemblies into our  finished products. Our principal manufacturing activities take place in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany, United  Kingdom, Italy, and China. As of June 30, 2020, we employed approximately 1,830 full-time manufacturing personnel. No assurance can be given that patents will be issued on any of our applications, that license assignments will be made as  anticipated, or that our patents, licenses or other proprietary rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. No  assurance can be given that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that  the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will  be able to protect our technology or that competitors will not be able to independently develop similar or functionally  competitive technology.  We protect our proprietary technology through reliance on a variety of intellectual property laws, including patent,  copyright and trade secret. We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and abroad and intend to  continue pursuing the legal protection of our technology through intellectual property laws. In addition, from time to time we  acquire license rights under United States and foreign patents and other proprietary rights of third parties, and we attempt to  protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers,  suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. Although we consider patents and other intellectual property significant to our business, no single patent, copyright or  trade secret is essential to us as a whole or to any of our business segments. We continuously evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances to expand our technologies, product offerings and  distribution capabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with  integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, and the potential loss of key employees of  the acquired companies. The inability to manage these risks effectively could negatively impact our operating results and  financial condition. We believe that, while price and delivery are important competitive factors, the customers’ overriding requirement is for  systems that easily and effectively incorporate automated capabilities into their existing development and manufacturing  processes to enhance productivity. Significant competitive factors in the market for process control and process-enabling  systems include system performance, ease of use, reliability, interoperability with the existing installed base and technical  service and support, as well as overall cost of ownership. Management believes that we are well positioned in the market with respect to both our products and services. However,  any loss of competitive position could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share,  any of which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. The worldwide market for technologically advanced, process control, process-enabling and yield management solutions  used by semiconductor and electronics manufactures is highly competitive. In each of our product markets, we have many  competitors, including companies such as Applied Materials, Inc., ASML Holding N.V., Hitachi High-Technologies  Corporation, Onto Innovation, Inc. and Lasertec, Inc., some of which may have greater financial, research, engineering,  manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. We may also face future competition from new market entrants from  other overseas and domestic sources. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their  current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with improved price and performance  characteristics. We believe that, to remain competitive, we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of  products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process research and  development.  Some critical parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, “parts”) that we use are designed by us and  manufactured by suppliers in accordance with our specifications, while other parts are standard commercial products. We use  numerous vendors to supply parts and raw materials for the manufacture and support of our products. Although we make  reasonable efforts to ensure that these parts and raw materials are available from multiple suppliers, this is not always possible,  and certain parts and raw materials included in our systems may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of  suppliers. Through our business interruption planning, we endeavor to minimize the risk of production interruption by, among  other things, monitoring the financial condition of suppliers of key parts and raw materials, identifying (but not necessarily  qualifying) possible alternative suppliers of such parts and materials, and ensuring adequate inventories of key parts and raw  materials are available to maintain manufacturing schedules. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, in some cases the partial or complete  loss of certain of these sources, or disruptions within our suppliers’ often-complex supply chains, could disrupt scheduled  deliveries to customers, damage customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As of June 30, 2020, we employed approximately 10,600 full-time employees. Except for our employees in Belgium  (where a trade union delegation has been recognized) and our employees in the German operations of our MIE business unit  (who are represented by employee works council), none of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not  experienced work stoppages and believe that our employee relations are good. Competition is intense in the recruiting of personnel in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industry. We  believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified management, marketing  and technical employees. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the protection of the  environment, including without limitation the management of hazardous materials that we use in our business operations.  Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our  capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. However, any failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may subject us to a range of consequences,  including fines, suspension of certain of our business activities, limitations on our ability to sell our products, obligations to  remediate environmental contamination, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. In addition, changes in  environmental laws and regulations could require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment, alter our  manufacturing processes or use substitute materials. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to  future liabilities. high-density interconnect  (HDI)    HDI PCBs have a higher wiring density per unit area, finer lines and spaces, smaller vias,  smaller capture pads and higher connection pad density than conventional PCBs. broadband      An illumination source with a wide spectral bandwidth. computer-aided  manufacturing (CAM)    An application technology that uses computer software and machinery to facilitate and  automate manufacturing processes. critical dimension (CD)      The dimension of a specified geometry (such as the width of a patterned line or the  distance between two lines) that must be within design tolerances in order to maintain  semiconductor device performance consistency. design rules      Rules that set forth the allowable dimensions of particular features used in the design and  layout of integrated circuits. design technology co- optimization (DTCO)    The methodology of optimizing semiconductor design and process simultaneously during  the technology definition phase. die      The term for a single semiconductor chip on a wafer.  electron-beam      An illumination source comprised of a stream of electrons emitted by a single source.  epitaxial silicon (epi) etching    A process step in which layers of material are removed from a semiconductor wafer in a  specific pattern.  excursion      For a manufacturing step or process, a deviation from normal operating conditions that can  lead to decreased performance or yield of the final product. fab    The main manufacturing facility for processing semiconductor wafers. finFET    A type of field-effect transistor (FET), often with source and drain geometries that  resemble fins. flat panel display (FPD)    A display appliance that uses a thin panel design. Also includes flexible displays. front end      The processes that make up the first half of the semiconductor manufacturing process,  from wafer start through final contact window processing.  geometry    The surface shape of an object, such as the 3D shape of a semiconductor device structure  or the shape of base or patterned wafers in situ      Refers to processing steps or tests that are done without moving the wafer. Latin for “in  original position.”  ingot    A piece of pure metal intended to be processed.  In semiconductors, a silicon ingot is  typically created in such a way that slicing cross-sections creates bare wafers.  active matrix    A technology used in flat panel displays to control the imaging-produced active areas  where the display pixels are located. A substrate technology based on growing a crystalline silicon layer on top of a silicon  wafer. The added layer, where the structure and orientation are matched to those of the  silicon wafer, includes dopants (impurities) to imbue the substrate with special electronic  properties. Flexible circuits in a device provide mechanical support and connect various electrical and  mechanical components together using material that can be shaped, bent, twisted or  folded. interconnect      A highly conductive material, usually copper or aluminum, which carries electrical signals  to different parts of a die. Moore’s Law    An observation made by Gordon Moore in 1965 and revised in 1975 that the number of  transistors on a typical integrated circuit doubles approximately every two years. nanometer (nm)      One billionth (10-9) of a meter.  internet of things (IoT)    A network of devices with the ability to transfer data without human interaction.  liquid crystal display  (LCD)    A flat panel display technology that uses a backlight to provide light to individual pixels  arranged in a grid. lithography      A process in which a masked pattern is projected onto a photosensitive coating that covers  a substrate. mask shop      A manufacturer that produces the reticles used by semiconductor manufacturers.  metrology microelectromechanical  systems (MEMS)    Micron-sized mechanical devices powered by electricity, created using processes similar  to those used to manufacture IC devices.  micron      A metric unit of linear measure that equals 1/1,000,000 meter (10-6m), or 10,000  angstroms (the diameter of a human hair is approximately 75 microns). multi-layer boards (MLB)    A printed circuit board (PCB) made up of three or more conductive layers that are pressed  together. organic light emitting  diode (OLED)    A flat panel display technology containing thin flexible sheets of an organic  electroluminescent material, used for visual displays.      patterned For semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies,  refers to substrates that have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated  on the surface.    photoresist printed circuit board  (PCB)    A board used to mechanically support and electrically connect various electrical and  mechanical components.    process control reticle      A very flat glass plate that contains the patterns to be reproduced on a wafer. A radiation-sensitive material that, when properly applied to a variety of substrates and  then properly exposed and developed, masks portions of the substrate with a high degree  of integrity.  The science of measurement to determine dimensions, quantity or capacity. In the  semiconductor industry, typical measurements include critical dimension, overlay and film  thickness. The property of semiconductor devices to create electric current through exposure to  sunlight. The ability to maintain specifications of products and equipment during manufacturing  operations. __________________   The definitions above are from internal sources, as well as online semiconductor dictionaries such as  https://www.semiconductors.org/semiconductors-101/frequently asked questions/. A substrate technology comprised of a thin top silicon layer separated from the silicon  substrate by a thin insulating layer of glass or silicon dioxide, used to improve  performance and reduce the power consumption of IC circuits.  Substrate-like PCB/modified semi-additive process is an advanced manufacturing process  or technique that enables fine line and space patterns with higher manufacturing precision  that maximizes circuit density.  A wafer or other material on which layers of various materials are added during the  process of manufacturing semiconductor devices (circuits), flat panel displays or printed  circuit boards. For semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies,  refers to substrates that do not have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.)  fabricated on the surface. These can include bare silicon wafers, other bare substrates or  substrates on which blanket films have been deposited. The ability of a semiconductor manufacturer to oversee, manage and control its  manufacturing processes so as to maximize the percentage of manufactured wafers or die  that conform to pre-determined specifications. The industries that we serve, including the semiconductor, flat panel display and printed circuit board industries, are  constantly developing and changing over time. Many of the risks associated with operating in these industries are comparable to  the risks faced by all technology companies, such as the uncertainty of future growth rates in the industries that we serve,  pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products (which place a growing emphasis on our  customers’ cost of ownership), changes in our customers’ capital spending patterns and, in general, an environment of constant  change and development, including decreasing product and component dimensions; use of new materials; and increasingly  complex device structures, applications and process steps. If we fail to appropriately adjust our cost structure and operations to  adapt to any of these trends, or, with respect to technological advances, if we do not timely develop new technologies and  products that successfully anticipate and address these changes, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business,  financial condition and operating results. In addition, we face a number of risks specific to ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry, as a significant majority  of our sales are our process control and yield management products sold to semiconductor manufacturers. Some of the trends  that our management monitors in operating our business include the following: Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic    The current COVID-19 pandemic and the potential aftereffects from it could materially harm our business,  financial condition and results of operations.      The COVID-19 pandemic has caused substantial global disruptions, including in the jurisdictions where we conduct  business and may cause additional disruptions in the future, which are impossible to predict.  Local, regional and national  authorities in numerous jurisdictions have implemented a variety of measures designed to slow the spread of the virus,  including social distancing guidelines, quarantines, banning of non-essential travel and requiring the cessation of non-essential  activities on the premises of businesses.        Some of the risks associated with the pandemic or a worsening of the pandemic in the future include:    •  cancellation or reduction of routes available from common carriers, which may cause delays in our ability to deliver or  service our products or receive components from suppliers necessary to manufacture or service our products;  •  travel bans or the requirement to quarantine for a lengthy period after entering a jurisdiction, which may delay our  ability to install the products we sell or service those products following installation;  •  governmental orders or employee exposure requiring us, our customers or our suppliers to discontinue manufacturing  products at our respective facilities for a period of time;  •  reduced demand for our products, push-out of deliveries or cancellation of orders by our customers caused by a global  recession resulting from the pandemic and the measures implemented by authorities to slow the spread of COVID-19;  •  increased costs or inability to acquire components necessary for the manufacture of our products due to reduced  availability;  •  absence of liquidity at customers and suppliers caused by disruptions from the pandemic, which may hamper the  ability of customers to pay for the products they purchase on time or at all, or hamper the ability of our suppliers to  continue to supply components to us in a timely manner or at all; and  •  loss of efficiencies due to remote working requirements for our employees.    If any of the foregoing risks occur or intensify during this pandemic, our business, financial condition and results of operations  could be materially adversely affected.    Risks Associated with Our Industry Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our  business to significant risks.     ITEM  1A.  RISK FACTORS A description of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is provided  below. Our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been highly concentrated due to corporate  consolidation, acquisitions and business closures. In this environment, orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers  have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of our sales. This increasing concentration  exposes our business, financial condition and operating results to a number of risks, including the following:   Any of the changes described above may negatively affect our customers’ rate of investment in the capital equipment that  we produce, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins. If we do not  successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industries, our business, financial  condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. • The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and  from year to year, which exposes our business and operating results to increased volatility tied to individual customers.   • New orders from our foundry customers in the past several years have constituted a significant portion of our total  orders. This concentration increases the impact that future business or technology changes within the foundry industry  may have on our business, financial condition and operating results.   • In a highly concentrated business environment, if a particular customer does not place an order, or if they delay or  cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business. Furthermore, because our process control and yield  management products are configured to each customer’s specifications, any changes, delays or cancellations of orders  may result in significant, non-recoverable costs.  • As a result of this consolidation, the customers that survive the consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales  and, consequently, have greater commercial negotiating leverage. Many of our large customers have more aggressive  policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we offer and, in addition, may seek  and, on occasion, receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms that may have an  adverse impact on our business. Any of these changes could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues  and gross margins.    • Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced  management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities  in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing  customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management  deciding to select a competitor’s products. • the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’  capital equipment investment decisions;   • differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as memory, logic and foundry;  • lower level of process control adoption by our memory customers compared to our foundry and logic customers;  • our customers’ reuse of existing and installed products, which may decrease their need to purchase new products or  solutions at more advanced technology nodes;  • the emergence of disruptive technologies that change the prevailing semiconductor manufacturing processes (or the  economics associated with semiconductor manufacturing) and, as a result, also impact the inspection and metrology  requirements associated with such processes;   • the higher design costs for the most advanced integrated circuits, which could economically constrain leading-edge  manufacturing technology customers to focus their resources on only the large, technologically advanced products and  applications;  • the possible introduction of integrated products by our larger competitors that offer inspection and metrology  functionality in addition to managing other semiconductor manufacturing processes;  • changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes that are extremely costly for our customers to implement and,  accordingly, our customers could reduce their available budgets for process control equipment by reducing inspection  and metrology sampling rates for certain technologies;  • the bifurcation of the semiconductor manufacturing industry into (a) leading edge manufacturers driving continued  research and development into next-generation products and technologies and (b) other manufacturers that are content  with existing (including previous generation) products and technologies;  • the ever-escalating cost of next-generation product development, which may result in joint development programs  between us and our customers or government entities to help fund such programs that could restrict our control of,  ownership of and profitability from the products and technologies developed through those programs; and  • the entry by some semiconductor manufacturers into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk  with other manufacturers, as well as increased outsourcing of their manufacturing activities, and greater focus only on  specific markets or applications, whether in response to adverse market conditions or other market pressures. We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. In addition, our management typically provides quarterly forecasts for certain financial metrics, which, when made, are  based on business and operational forecasts that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, largely due to the historical  cyclicality of our business and the industries in which we operate, and the fact that business conditions in our industries can  change very rapidly as part of these cycles, our actual results may vary (and have varied in the past) from forecasted results.  These variations can occur for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, unexpected changes in the volume or  timing of customer orders, product shipments or product acceptance; an inability to adjust our operations rapidly enough to  adapt to changing business conditions; or a different than anticipated effective tax rate. The impact on our business of delays or  cancellations of customer orders may be exacerbated by the short lead times that our customers expect between order placement  and product shipment. This is because order delays and cancellations may lead not only to lower revenues, but also, due to the  When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and  cost reduction measures may be necessary for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During periods of declining  revenues, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to  motivate and retain our key employees. If we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond fail to accomplish our intended  results, then our business could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost reduction actions that we  adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key  personnel. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to  meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to  industry cycles. Each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the industries in which we serve are difficult to predict. The  historically cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry in which we primarily operate is largely a function of our customers’  capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity  utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers’ access to capital. Cyclicality affects our ability  to accurately predict future revenue and, in some cases, future expense levels. During down cycles in our industry, the financial  results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of,  orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of  their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain  customers. Our ability to recognize revenue from a particular customer may also be negatively impacted by the customer’s  funding status, which could be weakened not only by adverse business conditions or inaccessibility to capital markets for any  number of macroeconomic or company-specific reasons, but also by funding limitations imposed by the customer’s unique  organizational structure. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We operate in industries that have historically been cyclical, including the semiconductor industry. The purchasing  decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and  the condition of the industry worldwide. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. • The highly concentrated business environment also increases our exposure to risks related to the financial condition of  each of our customers. For example, as a result of the challenging economic environment during fiscal year 2009, we  were (and in some cases continue to be) exposed to additional risks related to the continued financial viability of  certain of our customers. To the extent our customers experience liquidity issues in the future, we may be required to  incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers. In addition, customers  with liquidity issues may be forced to reduce purchases of our equipment, delay deliveries of our products, discontinue  operations or may be acquired by one of our customers, and in either case such event would have the effect of further  consolidating our customer base.   • Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process  control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor  manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer  generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time.  Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line  application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment.  Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific  production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.  • Prices differ among the products we offer for different applications due to differences in features offered or  manufacturing costs. If there is a shift in demand by our customers from our higher-priced to lower-priced products,  our gross margin and revenue would decrease. In addition, when products are initially introduced, they tend to have  higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product  generation, which can impact gross margin. In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. We regularly recognize revenue from a sale upon  shipment of the applicable product to the customer (even before receiving the customer’s formal acceptance of that product) in  certain situations, including sales of products for which installation is considered perfunctory, transactions in which the product  is sold to an independent distributor and we have no installation obligations, and sales of products where we have previously  delivered the same product to the same customer location and that prior delivery has been accepted. However, our products are  very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their  respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail  to meet the overall product’s required specifications. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies,  which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price. We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of inspection products. As a result, any delay or reduction  of sales of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The  continued customer demand for these products and the development, introduction and market acceptance of new products and  technologies are critical to our future success. Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to maintain our lead  or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets. Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and  international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The  process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will  actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance,  features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands. Substantial  research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a  new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. There can be no assurance that revenues  from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products  or enhancements. In addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we  will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to  sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. Success in the industries in which we serve, including the semiconductor, flat panel display and printed circuit board  industries depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. The  primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the  circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver appears to be slowing, which may cause semiconductor manufacturers to  delay investments in equipment, investigate more complex device architectures, use new materials and develop innovative  fabrication processes. These and other evolving customer plans and needs require us to respond with continued development  programs and cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. Technical innovations  are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. Our  competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards,  develop and introduce new products and solutions that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of  these new products and solutions, and manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to  accurately predict evolving industry standards and develop as well as offer competitive technology solutions in a timely manner  with cost-effective products could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would  adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. advance work we must do in anticipation of receiving a product order to meet the expected lead times, to significant inventory  write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease our gross margin. Any of these factors could materially and adversely  affect our financial results for a particular quarter and could cause those results to differ materially from financial forecasts we  have previously provided. We provide these forecasts with the intent of giving investors and analysts a better understanding of  management’s expectations for the future, but those reviewing such forecasts must recognize that such forecasts are comprised  of, and are themselves, forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Item 1A and  elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. If our operating or financial results for a particular  period differ from our forecasts or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we revise our forecasts, the market price of our  common stock could decline.    Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure If we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market  conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed. Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide. Some of our  competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering,  manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess. We face competition from companies  whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that  we offer. These competitors may bundle their products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our  products, including pricing such competitive tools significantly below our product offerings. In addition, we face competition  from smaller emerging companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using  innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our  existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of continuing significant investments in product  research and development. However, we may enter new markets, whether through acquisitions or new internal product  development, in which competition is based primarily on product pricing, not technological superiority. Further, some new  growth markets that emerge may not require leading technologies. Loss of competitive position in any of the markets we serve,  or an inability to sell our products on favorable commercial terms in new markets we may enter, could negatively affect our  prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively affect our operating results  and financial condition. We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical  components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials. We generally do not have guaranteed supply  arrangements with our suppliers. Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers’ orders, we do not maintain an  extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing. Through our business interruption planning, we seek to minimize the risk of  production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by, among other things, monitoring the financial stability of  key suppliers, identifying (but not necessarily qualifying) possible alternative suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories  of key parts. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, certain key parts  are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Also, key parts we obtain from some of our suppliers  incorporate the suppliers’ proprietary intellectual property; in those cases we are increasingly reliant on third parties for high- performance, high-technology components, which reduces the amount of control we have over the availability and protection of  the technology and intellectual property that is used in our products. In addition, if certain of our key suppliers experience  liquidity issues and are forced to discontinue operations, which is a heightened risk especially during economic downturns, it  could affect their ability to deliver parts and could result in delays for our products. Similarly, especially with respect to  suppliers of high-technology components, our suppliers themselves have increasingly complex supply chains, and delays or  disruptions at any stage of their supply chains may prevent us from obtaining parts in a timely manner and result in delays for  our products. Our operating results and business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain parts to meet our commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and  obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own,  which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with  our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and  product research and development projects. The termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other  unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and  development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. While patent, copyright and trademark protection for our intellectual property is important, we believe our future success  in highly dynamic markets is most dependent upon the technical competence and creative skills of our personnel. We attempt to  protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers,  suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures. We also maintain exclusive and non-exclusive  licenses with third parties for strategic technology used in certain products. However, these employees, consultants and third  parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing. In addition, the laws of certain  territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same  extent as do the laws of the United States. In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of  confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our  competitors. Our business would be harmed if we do not receive parts sufficient in number and performance to meet our production  requirements and product specifications in a timely and cost-effective manner. We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain  proprietary software and documentation. However, we can give no assurance that our trademarks and copyrights will be upheld  or successfully deter infringement by third parties. Our future performance depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to compete successfully worldwide. We attempt to operate our business in accordance with a business plan that is established annually, revised frequently  (generally quarterly), and reviewed by management even more frequently (at least monthly). Our business plan is developed  based on a number of factors, many of which require estimates and assumptions, such as our expectations of the economic  environment, future business levels, our customers’ willingness and ability to place orders, lead-times, and future revenue and  cash flow. Our budgeted operating expenses, for example, are based in part on our future revenue expectations. However, our  ability to achieve our anticipated revenue levels is a function of numerous factors, including the volatile and historically  cyclical nature of our primary industry, customer order cancellations, macroeconomic changes, operational matters regarding  particular agreements, our ability to manage customer deliveries, the availability of resources for the installation of our  products, delays or accelerations by customers in taking deliveries and the acceptance of our products (for products where  customer acceptance is required before we can recognize revenue from such sales), our ability to operate our business and sales  processes effectively, and a number of the other risk factors set forth in this Item 1A. production requirements and product specifications, or if we are only able to do so on unfavorable terms. Furthermore, a  supplier may discontinue production of a particular part for any number of reasons, including the supplier’s financial condition  or business operational decisions, which would require us to purchase, in a single transaction, a large number of such  discontinued parts in order to ensure that a continuous supply of such parts remains available to our customers. Such “end-of- life” parts purchases could result in significant expenditures by us in a particular period, and ultimately any unused parts may  result in a significant inventory write-off, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of  operations for the applicable periods. If we fail to operate our business in accordance with our business plan, our operating results, business and stock price  may be significantly and adversely impacted. Because our expenses are in most cases relatively fixed in the short term, any revenue shortfall below expectations could  have an immediate and significant adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, if we fail to manage our expenses  effectively or otherwise fail to maintain rigorous cost controls, we could experience greater than anticipated expenses during an  operating period, which would also negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to operate our business consistent with  our business plan, our operating results in any period may be significantly and adversely impacted. Such an outcome could  cause customers, suppliers or investors to view us as less stable, or could cause us to fail to meet financial analysts’ revenue or  earnings estimates, any of which could have an adverse impact on our stock price. In addition, our management is constantly striving to balance the requirements and demands of our customers with the  availability of resources, the need to manage our operating model and other factors. In furtherance of those efforts, we often  must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries, installations and payment  scheduling. Any such decisions may impact our ability to recognize revenue, including the fiscal period during which such  revenue may be recognized, with respect to such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results  of operations or stock price. As of June 30, 2020, we had $3.50 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, consisting of $3.45  billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes and $50.0 million borrowed under our Revolving  Credit Facility, and an additional $950.0 million in unfunded commitments. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future  by accessing the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility and/or entering into new financing arrangements. For  example, at the same time we announced our intention to acquire Orbotech, we also announced a new stock repurchase program  authorizing the repurchase up to $3.00 billion of our common stock, a large portion of which would be financed with new  indebtedness. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our current indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to  manage our business operations, our credit rating, the ongoing interest rate environment and the other risk factors discussed in  this section. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of notes by at  least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our right to redeem the notes of such series, we will be  required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s notes of that series pursuant to  the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”). In the Change of Control Offer, we will be required to offer  payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any,  on the notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase. We cannot make any assurance that we will have  sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of that series of notes.  Our ability to repurchase that series of notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with that series of  notes, or by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time. If we fail to repurchase that series of notes as  required by the terms of such notes, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing that series of notes  which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations. We have a leveraged capital structure. Our ability to satisfy our future expenses as well as our new debt obligations will depend on our future performance,  which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. Furthermore, our future operations may  not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may  impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating. If our future operations  do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the money available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit  Facility or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional  funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on  acceptable terms. Any borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the  financial covenants. If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and  such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations. Our Board of Directors first instituted a quarterly dividend during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Since that time, we  have announced a number of increases in the amount of our quarterly dividend level as well as payment of a special cash  dividend that was declared and substantially paid in the second quarter of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. We intend to  continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that  cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the  declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors: our views on  potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal  risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; changes to our business  model; and our increased interest and principal payments required by our outstanding indebtedness and any additional  indebtedness that we may incur in the future. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide  assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments  could have a negative effect on our stock price. We are exposed to risks related to our commercial terms and conditions, including our indemnification of third parties,  as well as the performance of our products. Although our standard commercial documentation sets forth the terms and conditions that we intend to apply to  commercial transactions with our business partners, counterparties to such transactions may not explicitly agree to our terms  and conditions. In situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the  applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate, and an increase in interest rates would  require us to pay additional interest on any borrowings, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt  and the market price of our common stock could decline. The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to  an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility,  we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios,  the details of which can be found in Note 8 “Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and  payable. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to  repay our borrowings at such time. In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings  under our Revolving Credit Facility. In the event that we default on our borrowings, these domestic subsidiaries shall be liable  for our borrowings, which could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial  condition or stock price. Our leveraged capital structure may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and net income per  share.  Our issuance and maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including, but not  limited to: There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts. • a negative impact on our ability to satisfy our future obligations;  • an increase in the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to increased interest and principal payments  that may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends,  stock repurchases, general corporate or other purposes;   • an impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and  • obligations to comply with restrictive and financial covenants as noted in the above risk factor and Note 8, “Debt,” to  our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues. Our products and  production processes are extremely complex and thus could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are  first introduced. Unexpected product performance issues could result in significant costs being incurred by us, including  increased service or warranty costs, providing product replacements for (or modifications to) defective products, litigation  related to defective products, reimbursement for damages caused by our products, product recalls, or product write-offs or  disposal costs. These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and  operating results. In addition, our reputation with our customers could be damaged as a result of such product defects, which  could reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business.    Furthermore, we occasionally enter into volume purchase agreements with our larger customers, and these agreements  may provide for certain volume purchase incentives, such as credits toward future purchases. We believe that these  arrangements are beneficial to our long-term business, as they are designed to encourage our customers to purchase higher  volumes of our products. However, these arrangements could require us to recognize a reduced level of revenue for the  products that are initially purchased, to account for the potential future credits or other volume purchase incentives. Our volume  purchase agreements require significant estimation for the amounts to be accrued depending upon the estimate of volume of  future purchases. As such, we are required to update our estimates of the accruals on a periodic basis. Until the earnings process  is complete, our estimates could differ in comparison to actual results. As a result, these volume purchase arrangements, while  expected to be beneficial to our business over time, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in near-term  periods, including the revenue we can recognize on product sales and therefore our gross margins. In addition, we may, in limited circumstances, enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on  pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these  customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a  customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit  or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or  inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our Consolidated Financial Statements for this contingency. While  we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot  make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. Our business, financial condition and results of  operations in a reported fiscal period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in supporting  an audit or inspection, or defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes. In addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business we indemnify third parties  with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, suppliers and lessors, with respect to certain matters.  We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising  from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes  infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. We may be  compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations, or we may be subject to  potential liability arising from our customers’ involvements in legal disputes. In addition, notwithstanding the provisions related  to limitations on our liability that we seek to include in our business agreements, the counterparties to such agreements may  dispute our interpretation or application of such provisions, and a court of law may not interpret or apply such provisions in our  favor, any of which could result in an obligation for us to pay material damages to third parties and engage in costly legal  proceedings. It is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations,  whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that  are likely to be involved in any particular claim. Our business, financial condition and results of operations in a reported fiscal  period could be materially and adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported  claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes. interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business  relationship with them. Such disputes could lead to a deterioration of our commercial relationship with those parties, costly and  time-consuming litigation, or additional concessions or obligations being offered by us to resolve such disputes, or could impact  our revenue or cost recognition. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition  and results of operations. We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs  from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally. Governments and government  agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be  terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is  no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future. In addition, under the terms  of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and  indirectly, in connection with such programs. Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the  applicable government funding program. For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to  the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have  to be refunded. We do not know the outcome of any future audits. Any adverse finding resulting from any such audit could lead  to penalties (financial or otherwise), termination of funding programs, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or  prohibition from receiving future government funding from the applicable government or government agency, any of which  could adversely impact our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business. We enter into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory  notes from customers without recourse. In addition, we maintain bank accounts with several domestic and foreign financial  institutions, any of which may prove not to be financially viable. If we were to stop entering into these factoring arrangements,  our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by delays or failures in collecting trade  receivables. However, by entering into these arrangements, and by engaging these financial institutions for banking services,  we are exposed to additional risks. If any of these financial institutions experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable  to honor the terms of our factoring or deposit arrangements, we may experience material financial losses due to the failure of  such arrangements or a lack of access to our funds, any of which could have an adverse impact upon our operating results,  financial condition and cash flows. Any such additional material charges, whether related to restructuring or goodwill or purchased intangible asset  impairment, may have a material negative impact on our operating results and related financial statements.  We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking  arrangements.  We have recorded significant restructuring, inventory write-off and asset impairment charges and may do so again in  the future, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. Historically, we have recorded material restructuring charges related to our prior global workforce reductions, large  excess inventory write-offs, and material impairment charges related to our goodwill and purchased intangible assets.  Workforce changes can also temporarily reduce workforce productivity, which could be disruptive to our business and  adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected cost savings or other benefits  of our restructuring plans, or do so within the expected time frame. If we again restructure our organization and business  processes, implement additional cost reduction actions or discontinue certain business operations, we may take additional,  potentially material, restructuring charges related to, among other things, employee terminations or exit costs. We may also be  required to write-off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of service inventory decline. Also, as our lead  times from suppliers increase (due to the increasing complexity of the parts and components they provide) and the lead times  demanded by our customers decrease (due to the time pressures they face when introducing new products or technology or  bringing new facilities into production), we may be compelled to increase our commitments, and therefore our risk exposure, to  inventory purchases to meet our customers’ demands in a timely manner, and that inventory may need to be written-off if  demand for the underlying product declines for any reason. Such additional write-offs could result in material charges.  We have recorded material charges related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets. Goodwill  represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not  amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill.  Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on  economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative  guidance for long-lived assets. The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets requires assumptions and estimates of many  critical factors, including but not limited to declines in our operating cash flows, declines in our stock price or market  capitalization, declines in our market share, and declines in revenues or profits. A substantial decline in our stock price, or any  other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions  or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of  any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional  impairment charge. There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development. In addition, government controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or  restrict our ability to import or export our products and services or increase the cost of our operations through the imposition of  tariffs, new controls, outright bans, or otherwise, could harm our business. For example, the United States Department of  Commerce has added numerous China-based entities to the U.S. Entity List, including Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit  Company, Ltd. (“JHICC”) and certain Huawei entities , restricting our ability to provide products and services to such entities  without a license. In addition, the U.S. Department of Commerce has imposed new export licensing requirements on China- based customers engaged in military end uses, as well as requiring our customers to obtain an export license when they use  certain semiconductor capital equipment based on U.S. technology to manufacture custom products for Huawei or its affiliates. A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the United States, and we maintain significant operations  outside the United States. We expect that these conditions will continue in the foreseeable future. Managing global operations  and sites located throughout the world presents a number of challenges, including but not limited to:  A majority of our annual revenues are derived from outside the United States, and we maintain significant operations  outside the United States. We are exposed to numerous risks as a result of the international nature of our business and  operations. We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement  arrangement into which we have entered. In connection with the settlement of certain government actions and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock  option practices, we have explicitly agreed as a condition to such settlements that we will comply with certain laws, such as the  books and records provisions of the federal securities laws. If we were to violate any such law, we might not only be subject to  the significant penalties applicable to such violation, but our past settlements may also be impacted by such violation, which  could give rise to additional government actions or other legal proceedings. Any such additional actions or proceedings may  require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, and may divert  attention and resources from the operation of our business. These expenditures and diversions, as well as an adverse resolution  of any such action or proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of  operations. • global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade policies, including the ability to obtain  required import and export licenses, trade sanctions, tariffs, and international trade disputes;  • political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over  non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and  growth of local competitors;  • ineffective or inadequate legal protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries;  • managing cultural diversity and organizational alignment;  • exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global market, which can cause capital equipment  investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period;  • periodic local or international economic downturns;  • potential adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and  higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we do business;  • compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business;  • existing and potentially new tariffs or other trade restrictions and barriers (including those applied to our products,  spare parts, and services or to parts and supplies that we purchase);  • political instability, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have  operations or where we do business;  • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may adversely impact our ability to compete on price with local  providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business. Although we attempt to manage some  of our near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will  be adequate;  • receiving prepayments for certain of our products and services sold in certain jurisdictions.  These prepayments  increase our cash flows for the quarter in which they are received.  If our practice of requiring prepayments in those  jurisdictions changes or deteriorates, our cash flows would be harmed.   • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;  • difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors’ compliance with  applicable laws); and  • inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions. Demand for our products is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses.  Economic uncertainty frequently leads to reduced consumer and business spending, which caused our customers to decrease,  cancel or delay their equipment and service orders from us in the economic slowdown during fiscal year 2009. In addition, the  tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit that accompanied that slowdown made it more  difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the  products we sell. Reduced demand, combined with delays in our customers’ ability to obtain financing (or the unavailability of  such financing), has at times in the past adversely affected our product and service sales and revenues and therefore has harmed  our business and operating results, and our operating results and financial condition may again be adversely impacted if  economic conditions decline from their current levels. In addition, a decline in the condition of the global financial markets could adversely impact the market values or liquidity  of our investments. Our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, money market funds and other  types of debt and equity investments. Although we believe our portfolio continues to be comprised of sound investments due to  the quality and (where applicable) credit ratings of such investments, a decline in the capital and financial markets would  adversely impact the market value of our investments and their liquidity. If the market value of such investments were to  decline, or if we were to have to sell some of our investments under illiquid market conditions, we may be required to recognize  an impairment charge on such investments or a loss on such sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial  condition and operating results. To date, these new rules have not significantly impacted our operations, but we are continually monitoring their impact..   Similar actions by the U.S. government or another country could impact our ability to provide our products and services to  existing and potential customers. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from difficult macroeconomic conditions, our  business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As is typical in the industries in which we serve, from time to time we have received communications from other parties  asserting the existence of patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights which they believe  cover certain of our products, processes, technologies or information. In addition, we occasionally receive notification from  customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to intellectual property claims made  against such customers by third parties. With respect to intellectual property infringement disputes, our customary practice is to  evaluate such infringement assertions and to consider whether to seek licenses where appropriate. However, there can be no  assurance that licenses can be obtained or, if obtained, will be on acceptable terms or that costly litigation or other  administrative proceedings will not occur. The inability to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on reasonable terms could  seriously harm our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may potentially be subject to claims by  customers, suppliers or other business partners, or by governmental law enforcement agencies, related to our receipt,  distribution and/or use of third-party intellectual property or confidential information. Legal proceedings and claims, regardless  of their merit, and associated internal investigations with respect to intellectual property or confidential information disputes are  often expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct; may divert management’s attention and other company resources; and/or may  result in restrictions on our ability to sell our products, settlements on significantly adverse terms or adverse judgments for  damages, injunctive relief, penalties and fines, any of which could have a significant negative effect on our business, results of  operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of future legal proceedings, claims or  investigations. The instigation of legal proceedings or claims, our inability to favorably resolve or settle such proceedings or  claims, or the determination of any adverse findings against us or any of our employees in connection with such proceedings or  claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our business  reputation. We might be involved in claims or disputes related to intellectual property or other confidential information that may  be costly to resolve, prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology and seriously harm our operating results and  financial condition. Any of the factors above could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations.  We are exposed to risks associated with a weakening in the condition of the financial markets and the global economy. We are subject to various risks related to compliance with new, existing, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws,  rules and regulations enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with  which we must comply, including environmental, safety, antitrust, anti-corruption/anti-bribery, unclaimed property and export  control regulations. Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations, or changes to existing  laws, rules or regulations (including changes that result in inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules or regulations), in the countries  in which we operate could result in violations of contractual or regulatory obligations that may adversely affect our operating  results, financial condition and ability to conduct our business. From time to time, we may receive inquiries or audit notices  from governmental or regulatory bodies, or we may participate in voluntary disclosure programs, related to legal, regulatory or  tax compliance matters, and these inquiries, notices or programs may result in significant financial cost (including investigation  expenses, defense costs, assessments and penalties), reputational harm and other consequences that could materially and  adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international  environmental laws and regulations, including those that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge,  storage and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental  laws, regulations or requirements may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of certain of our  business activities, limitations on our ability to sell our products, obligations to remediate environmental contamination, and  criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. In addition, changes in environmental regulations (including regulations relating  to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions) could require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment,  alter our manufacturing processes or use substitute (potentially more expensive and/or rarer) materials. Further, we use  hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by any release, regardless  of fault. We also face increasing complexity in our manufacturing, product design and procurement operations as we adjust to  new and prospective requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including restrictions on lead and other  substances and requirements to track the sources of certain metals and other materials. The cost of complying, or of failing to  comply, with these and other regulatory restrictions or contractual obligations could adversely affect our operating results,  financial condition and ability to conduct our business.  In addition, we may from time to time be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding employment, immigration,  contracts, product performance, product liability, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, unfair competition and other  matters. These legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their merit, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or  defend, divert management’s attention and resources, and/or inhibit our ability to sell our products. There can be no assurance  regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims, which could adversely affect our operating results,  financial condition and ability to operate our business. We are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our  operations and conduct our business. Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to  replace. We generally do not have employment contracts with our key employees. Further, we do not maintain key person life  insurance on any of our employees. The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and  competition for qualified personnel. In addition, current or future immigration laws, policies or regulations may limit our ability  to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel.  If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we are not able to  attract, assimilate and retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our current and future needs, our business and  operations could be harmed. We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance  of these functions. Disruptions or delays at our third-party service providers could adversely impact our operations. We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics  management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service  providers. While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the  services rendered. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products delivered  or services rendered, on our ability to quickly respond to changing market conditions, or on our ability to ensure compliance  with all applicable domestic and foreign laws and regulations. In addition, many of these outsourced service providers,  including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for  such storage. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber- attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control. If we do  not effectively develop and manage our outsourcing strategies, if required export and other governmental approvals are not We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate  our key employees, our sales and product development could be harmed. In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue  acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources. As part of this effort, in February 2019, we announced that we  had consummated our acquisition of Orbotech. We may also enter into definitive agreements for and consummate acquisitions  of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. There can be no  assurance that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. In addition, we  may use equity to finance future acquisitions, which would increase our number of shares outstanding and be dilutive to current  stockholders. Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find  suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. We are  also exposed to risks in connection with strategic alliances into which we may enter. In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems. This data includes  confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business  partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. We allocate significant resources to network security,  data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. Despite  our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses,  cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts,  including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the  inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures. We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may  experience cyber-related attacks in the future. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors,  malfeasance, or otherwise. Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose  sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data. Because the techniques used to  obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a  target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any of such occurrences could result in disruptions to our operations; misappropriation, corruption or theft of confidential  information, including intellectual property and other critical data, of KLA, our customers and other business partners;  misappropriation of funds and company assets; reduced value of our investments in research, development and engineering;  litigation with, or payment of damages to, third parties; reputational damage; costs to comply with regulatory inquiries or  actions; data privacy issues; costs to rebuild our internal information systems; and increased cybersecurity protection and  remediation costs. We carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it  will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.  We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations. Our inability to use or access our  information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact our business operations. Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our  corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. System failures  or malfunctioning, such as difficulties with our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system, could disrupt our  operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. Our enterprise  resource planning (“ERP”) system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record  transactions, provide critical information to our management, and prepare our financial statements. Any disruptions or  difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular  operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into  such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal  control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any of these events could have an  adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. timely obtained, if our third-party service providers do not perform as anticipated or do not adequately protect our data from  cyber-related security breaches, or if there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes, we may experience  operational difficulties (such as limitations on our ability to ship products), increased costs, manufacturing or service  interruptions or delays, loss of intellectual property rights or other sensitive data, quality and compliance issues, and challenges  in managing our product inventory or recording and reporting financial and management information, any of which could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and cyber incidents. The threat of terrorism targeted at, or acts of war in, the regions of the world in which we do business increases the  uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism or war that affects the economy or the industries we serve could adversely  affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation and  further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our  costs of operations. We maintain significant operations in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a  number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility varying in degree and  intensity, has led to security and economic challenges for Israel. In addition, some our employees in Israel are obligated to  perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, and may be called to active military duty in emergency  circumstances. We cannot assess the impact that emergency conditions in Israel in the future may have on our business,  operations, financial condition or results of operations, but it could be material. Instability in any region could directly impact  our ability to operate our business (or our customers’ ability to operate their businesses), cause us to incur increased costs in In addition, as part of our cost-cutting actions, we have consolidated several operating facilities. Our California operations  are now primarily centralized in our Milpitas facility. The consolidation of our California operations into a single campus could  further concentrate the risks related to any of the disruptive events described above, such as acts of war or terrorism,  earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters, if any such event were to impact our Milpitas facility. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. If international  political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. At times, we may also enter into strategic alliances with customers, suppliers or other business partners with respect to  development of technology and intellectual property. These alliances typically require significant investments of capital and  exchange of proprietary, highly sensitive information. The success of these alliances depends on various factors over which we  may have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with our strategic partners. Mergers and  acquisitions and strategic alliances are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks  could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Disruption of our manufacturing facilities or other operations, or in the operations of our customers, due to  earthquake, flood, other natural catastrophic events, health epidemics or terrorism could result in cancellation of orders,  delays in deliveries or other business activities, or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. We have significant manufacturing operations in the United States, Singapore, Israel, Germany, United Kingdom, Italy,  and China. In addition, our business is international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our  customers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Operations at our manufacturing facilities and our assembly  subcontractors, as well as our other operations and those of our customers, are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons,  including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics and pandemics, fire, earthquake, volcanic eruptions, energy  shortages, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products  to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products  at customer sites. We cannot provide any assurance that alternate means of conducting our operations (whether through  alternate production capacity or service providers or otherwise) would be available if a major disruption were to occur or that, if  such alternate means were available, they could be obtained on favorable terms. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses, if the costs associated with integrating the  acquired business exceeds our expectations, or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results  may suffer. It is possible that the businesses we have acquired, as well as businesses that we may acquire in the future, may  perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than anticipated. In addition, we may lose  key employees of the acquired companies. As a result, risks associated with acquisition transactions may lead to a material  adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: • we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses;  • the combination of businesses may result in the loss of key personnel or an interruption of, or loss of momentum in,  the activities of our company and/or the acquired business;  • we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions;  • we may experience challenges in entering into new market segments for which we have not previously manufactured  and sold products;  • we may face difficulties in coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;  • the customers, distributors, suppliers, employees and others with whom the companies we acquire have business  dealings may have a potentially adverse reaction to the acquisition;  • we may have difficulty implementing a cohesive framework of internal controls over the entire organization;  • we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and  • we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. Our investment portfolio primarily consists of both corporate and government debt securities that are susceptible to  changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As market interest rates and bond yields increase, those securities with a lower  yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. We believe we have the ability to realize the full value of all these  investments upon maturity. However, an impairment of the fair market value of our investments, even if unrealized, must be  reflected in our financial statements for the applicable period and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of  operations for that period. In addition, the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly during recent years. The  trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to various factors,  including without limitation conditions in the semiconductor industry and other industries in which we operate, fluctuations in  the global economy or capital markets, our operating results or other performance metrics, or adverse consequences  experienced by us as a result of any of the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A. Volatility in the market price of our  common stock could cause an investor in our common stock to experience a loss on the value of their investment in us and  could also adversely impact our ability to raise capital through the sale of our common stock or to use our common stock as  consideration to acquire other companies. We are subject to tax and regulatory compliance audits (such as related to customs or product safety requirements) in  various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income or other taxes, penalties, fines or other prohibitions  against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and that our products and practices comply with applicable  regulations, the final determination of any such audit and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical We have some exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Japanese Yen, the euro, the  pound sterling and the Israeli new shekel. We have international subsidiaries that operate and sell our products globally. In  addition, an increasing proportion of our manufacturing activities are conducted outside of the United States, and many of the  costs associated with such activities are denominated in foreign currencies. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign  currencies with certain financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations,  but these hedges may be inadequate to protect us from currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that these hedges are  inadequate, or if there are significant currency exchange rate fluctuations in currencies for which we do not have hedges in  place, our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if a financial  counterparty to our hedges experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency  hedge, we may experience material financial losses. We purchase insurance to help mitigate the economic impact of certain insurable risks; however, certain risks are  uninsurable, are insurable only at significant cost or cannot be mitigated with insurance. Accordingly, we may experience a loss  that is not covered by insurance, either because we do not carry applicable insurance or because the loss exceeds the applicable  policy amount or is less than the deductible amount of the applicable policy. For example, we do not currently hold earthquake  insurance. An earthquake could significantly disrupt our manufacturing operations, a significant portion of which are conducted  in California, an area highly susceptible to earthquakes. It could also significantly delay our research and engineering efforts on  new products, much of which is also conducted in California. We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by  an earthquake, but there is no certainty that our efforts will prove successful in the event of an earthquake. We self-insure  earthquake risks because we believe this is a prudent financial decision based on our cash reserves and the high cost and limited  coverage available in the earthquake insurance market. Certain other risks are also self-insured either based on a similar cost- benefit analysis, or based on the unavailability of insurance. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer  major financial loss.  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we hedge certain currency risks, we may still  be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or declining economic conditions in these countries. We self-insure certain risks including earthquake risk. If one or more of the uninsured events occurs, we could suffer  major financial loss. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and the market values of our portfolio investments; impairment of our  investments could harm our earnings. In addition, we and our stockholders are exposed to risks related to the volatility of  the market for our common stock. transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to  fluctuate. Instability in the region could also have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to timely deliver their  products. If international political instability continues or increases in any region in which we do business, our business and  results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and  acts of war. We are exposed to risks in connection with tax and regulatory compliance audits in various jurisdictions. New accounting standards and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation rules  have occurred and will continue to occur in the future. Changes to (or revised interpretations or applications of) existing  accounting standards or tax rules or the questioning of current or past practices may adversely affect our reported financial  results or the way we conduct our business. Adoption of new standards may require changes to our processes, accounting  systems, and internal controls. Difficulties encountered during adoption could result in internal control deficiencies or delay the  reporting of our financial results. In addition, the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs-Act in December 2017 caused us to  significantly increase our provision for income taxes, which had a material adverse effect on our net income for the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2018. Further interpretations of the Act from the government and regulatory organizations may change our tax  expense provided for our transitional tax liability and deferred tax adjustments as well as our provision liability or accounting  treatment of the provisional liability which may potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to  new deferred tax amounts. We earn profits in, and are therefore potentially subject to taxes in, the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including  Singapore, Israel and the Cayman Islands, the countries in which we earn the majority of our non-U.S. profits. Due to  economic, political or other conditions, tax rates in those jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. A number of  factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be  earned and taxed; changes in the tax rates imposed by those jurisdictions; expiration of tax holidays in certain jurisdictions that  are not renewed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our  deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses  not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of  goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense;  changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the  repatriation of earnings from outside the U.S. for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. A change in our  effective tax rate can materially and adversely impact our results from operations. In addition, recent changes to U.S. tax laws will significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on  foreign earnings. Numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws due in part, to recommendations made by the  Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (“OECD’s”) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project.  As of December 31, 2018, we have completed our accounting for the tax effects of the Act, which was enacted into law on  December 22, 2017. However, the recent U.S. tax law changes are subject to future guidance from U.S. federal and state  governments, such as the Treasury Department and/or the IRS. Any future guidance can change our tax liability. A significant  portion of the income taxes due to the enactment of the Act is payable by us over a period of eight years. As a result, our cash  flows from operating activities will be adversely impacted until tax liability is paid in full. income tax provisions and accruals related to income taxes and other contingencies. In addition to and in connection with the  Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) Assessment described in more detail in Note 14 “Income Taxes” in the Notes to the Consolidated  Financial Statements, there is an ongoing criminal investigation against our Orbotech subsidiary, certain of its employees and  its tax consultant that began prior to the Acquisition Date. We can make no assurances that an indictment will not result from  the criminal investigation. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or  cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain  extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict  independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties  for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws,  rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of  our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert  management’s attention from business operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices (or changes in  interpretations of such standards, practices or rules) can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even  affect reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective.  Compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ requirements, has become  increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact  on our business. A change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. __________________   (1)  Includes 248,155 square feet of property owned at our location in Serangoon, Singapore, where the land on which this  building resides is leased.    ITEM  3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Not applicable.  PART II    ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES On August 3, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend  level to $0.90 per share.  On August 6, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend  of $0.90 per share to be paid on September 1, 2020 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 17, 2020. ITEM  2.  PROPERTIES      Our headquarters are located in Milpitas, California. As of June 30, 2020, we owned or leased a total of approximately  3.4 million square feet of space for research, engineering, marketing, service, sales and administration worldwide primarily in  U.S., Israel, China, Singapore, Germany and Taiwan. Our operating leases expire at various times through January 4, 2037,  subject to renewal, with some of the leases containing renewal option clauses at the fair market value, for additional periods up  to five years. Additional information regarding these leases is incorporated herein by reference to Note 9 “Leases” to the  Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe our properties are adequately maintained and suitable for their intended use and  that our production facilities have capacity adequate for our current needs. Our Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits us to repurchase up to $3.00 billion of our common  stock, reflecting an increase of $1.00 billion authorized by our Board of Directors during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020.   These repurchases may be effected through various different repurchase transaction structures, including isolated open market  transactions or systematic repurchase plans, in all cases, subject to compliance with applicable law. This repurchase program  has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. We did not repurchase any shares under this  authorization in the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. As of June 30, 2020, we have approximately $1.04 billion  that may yet be purchased under this authorization. ITEM  4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  The information set forth below under Note 15 “Litigation and Other Legal Matters” to the Consolidated Financial  Statements is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM  1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. As of July 20, 2020, there were 393 holders of record of our common stock.  Our common stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “KLAC.”  Information regarding our principal properties as of June 30, 2020 is set forth below: The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total return attained by stockholders on our common stock relative  to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (PHLX). The graph tracks the  performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each of the indices (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from  June 30, 2015 to June 30, 2020.   Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed “filed” with  the Commission or “soliciting material” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be incorporated by reference  into any such filings. Our fiscal year ends June 30. The comparisons in the graph above are based upon historical data and are not necessarily  indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future stock price performance. June 2015   June 2016   June 2017   June 2018   June 2019   June 2020  KLA Corporation  $100.00   $134.78   $172.89   $198.49   $235.36   $395.31  S&P 500  $100.00   $103.99   $122.60   $140.23   $154.83   $166.45  PHLX Semiconductor  $100.00   $103.77   $157.95   $203.93   $231.07   $321.96 ITEM  6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following tables include selected consolidated summary financial data for each of our last five fiscal years. This data  should be read in conjunction with Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and Item 7 “Management’s  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.     Year ended June 30, __________  (1)  On July 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers  ("ASC 606") using the modified retrospective transition approach. Results for reporting periods beginning after June 30,  2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in  accordance with the previous revenue guidance in ASC 605.  (2)  On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech for total purchase consideration of approximately $3.26  billion. The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the  Acquisition Date in 2019. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” to our Consolidated Financial  Statements.  (3)  Our net income decreased to $802.3 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, primarily as a result of the income  tax effects from the enacted tax reform legislation through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on  December 22, 2017.  (4)  We adopted the accounting standards update regarding classification of deferred taxes on a prospective basis at the  beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year ended 2016. Upon adoption, approximately $218.0 million in net current  deferred tax assets were reclassified to non-current. No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted.   (5)  On July 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842, Leases ("ASC 842") on a prospective basis.  The adoption of ASC 842 resulted  in the balance sheet recognition of additional lease assets and lease liabilities of $110.7 million and $108.7 million,  respectively. Refer to Note 1 "Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our  Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.  (6)  Our long-term debt increased to $3.47 billion at the end of fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 because we issued $750.0  million aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes and prepaid $500.0 million of senior notes  including payment of accrued interest and other costs. Our long-term debt increased to $3.17 billion at the end of fiscal  year ended June 30, 2019 because we issued $1.20 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term  notes. Refer to Note 8 “Debt” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Diluted  $  7.70    $  7.49   $  5.10   $  5.88   $  4.49                     As of June 30,    2020    2019    2018    2017    2016 Consolidated Balance Sheets(1)(2):                Total revenues  $ 5,806,424    $ 4,568,904   $ 4,036,701   $ 3,480,014   $ 2,984,493   Net income attributable to KLA(3)  $ 1,216,785    $ 1,175,617   $  802,265   $  926,076   $  704,422   Cash dividends declared per share  $  3.30   $  3.00  $  2.52  $  2.14  $  2.08  Net income per share attributable to KLA: Working capital(4)(5)  $ 3,023,759    $ 2,546,589   $ 3,334,730   $ 3,102,094   $ 2,868,062   Total assets  $ 9,279,960    $ 9,008,516   $ 5,638,619   $ 5,550,334   $ 4,977,076   Long-term debt(6)  $ 3,469,670    $ 3,173,383   $ 2,237,402   $ 2,680,474   $ 3,057,936   Total KLA stockholders’ equity(6)   $ 2,665,424    $ 2,659,108   $ 1,620,511   $ 1,326,417   $  689,114   Basic  $  7.76    $  7.53   $  5.13   $  5.92   $  4.52 Our revenues are driven largely by our customers’ spending on capital equipment and related maintenance services  necessary to support key transitions in their underlying product technologies, or to increase their production volumes in  response to market demand or expansion plans. Our semiconductor customers generally operate in one or more of the three  major semiconductor markets - memory, foundry and logic. All three of these markets are characterized by rapid technological  changes and sudden shifts in end-user demand, which influence the level and pattern of our customers’ spending on our  products and services. Although capital spending in all three semiconductor markets has historically been cyclical, the demand  for more advanced and lower cost chips used in a growing number of consumer electronics, communications, data processing,  and industrial and automotive products has resulted over the long term in a favorable demand environment for our process  control and yield management solutions, particularly in the foundry and logic markets, which have higher levels of process  control adoption than the memory market. The Data Era is creating multiple drivers for growth, with increased demand for  advanced and lower cost chips for Artificial Intelligence ("AI"), 5G connectivity, virtual interaction, electric cars, advanced  driver assistance automotive systems ("ADAS"), Internet of Things ("IoT") and mobile devices. The semiconductor and electronics industries have also been characterized by constant technological innovation. We  believe that, over the long term, our customers will continue to invest in advanced technologies and new materials to enable  smaller design rules and higher density applications that fuel demand for process control equipment. The demand for our products and our revenue levels are driven by our customers’ needs to solve the process challenges  that they face as they adopt new technologies required to fabricate advanced ICs that are incorporated into sophisticated  devices. Our customers continuously seek to increase yields and enhance the efficiency of their manufacturing processes,  including by improving their manufacturing, inspection, testing and repair capabilities. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our  Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in  this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties.  Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors,  including but not limited to those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  (See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”). Pursuant to the FAST Act Modernization and Simplification of  Regulation S-K, discussions related to the changes in results of operations from fiscal year 2019 to fiscal year 2018 have been  omitted. Such omitted discussion can be found under Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, filed  with the SEC. We are a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions and services for the semiconductor, PCB  and Display markets. Our broad portfolio of inspection and metrology products, and related service, software and other  offerings primarily supports integrated circuit (“IC” or “chip”) manufacturers throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication  process, from research and development to final volume production. We provide leading edge equipment, software and services  that enable IC manufacturers to identify, resolve and manage significant advanced technology manufacturing process  challenges and obtain higher finished product yields at lower overall cost. In addition to serving the semiconductor, PCB and  Display industry, we also provide a range of technology solutions to a number of other high technology industries, including  advanced packaging, light emitting diode (“LED”), power devices, compound semiconductor, and data storage industries, as  well as general materials research. Our products and services are used by the vast majority of bare wafer, IC, lithography reticle (“reticle” or “mask”) and  hard disk drive manufacturers around the world. Our products, services and expertise are used by our customers to measure,  detect, analyze and resolve critical product defects that arise in that environment in order to control nanometric level  manufacturing processes. ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS  OF OPERATIONS We are a global leader in process control and a supplier of process-enabling solutions and services for the data era. We believe these actions are appropriate and prudent to safeguard our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, and  communities, while allowing us to safely continue operations, but we cannot predict how the steps we, our team members,  government entities, suppliers, or customers take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, outlook, or  results of operations. __________________   (1)  On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech for total consideration of approximately $3.26 billion.  The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from the  Acquisition Date. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” in the Notes to our Consolidated  Financial Statements.  (2)  Our net income attributable to KLA for the year ended June 30, 2020 includes a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of  $256.6 million and a pre-tax charge of $22.5 million as a result of the extinguishment of debt.  For additional details,  refer to Note 7 "Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets" and Note 8 "Debt" in the Notes to our Consolidated  Financial Statements.    Impact of COVID-19 Events surrounding the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in a reduction in economic activity across the globe.  The severity and duration of these economic repercussions remain largely unknown and ultimately will depend on many  factors, including the speed and effectiveness of the containment efforts throughout the world.  The extent to which the  COVID-19 pandemic will impact demand for our products depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and  very difficult to predict, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of the virus and actions to contain  and treat its impacts. While all of our global sites are currently operational, our facilities could be required to temporarily curtail  production levels or temporarily cease operations based on government mandates. From the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, we proactively implemented preventative protocols intended to safeguard our  employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, and communities, and ensure business continuity in the event government  restrictions or severe outbreaks impact our operations at certain sites. We remain committed to the health and safety of our  employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, and communities, and are following government policies and recommendations  designed to slow the spread of COVID-19. Year ended June 30,  (Dollar amounts in thousands, except diluted net income per share)  2020    2019    2018  Total revenues  $  5,806,424    $  4,568,904   $  4,036,701    Costs of revenues  $  2,449,561    $  1,869,377   $  1,446,041    Gross margin percentage  58 %   59 %   64  %  Net income attributable to KLA(2)  $  1,216,785    $  1,175,617   $  802,265    Diluted net income per share attributable to KLA  $  7.70    $  7.49   $  5.10 •  We have put health screenings in place, required social distancing, and have established employee separation protocols  at our facilities. We have also suspended non-essential business travel and require team members to work from home  to the extent possible. Where work from home is not possible, all on-site team members must pass through thermal  scanning equipment to ensure they do not have an elevated body temperature and must wear a mask at all times.  •  We have developed strategies to address our responsiveness and ability to send engineers into customer facilities to  provide support services.  •  We have evaluated our supply chain and communicated with our suppliers to identify supply gaps and taken steps to  ensure continuity. We continue to monitor the supply chain and work with our suppliers to identify and mitigate  potential gaps to ensure continuity of supply.  •  We are evaluating all our construction projects across our global operations and enacting protocols to enhance the  safety of our employees, suppliers, and contractors.  •  We have developed strategies and are implementing measures to respond to a variety of potential economic scenarios,  such as limitations on new hiring and reductions in discretionary spending.  •  We are working with government authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate, and continuing to monitor our  operations in an effort to ensure we follow government requirements, relevant regulations, industry standards, and best  practices to help safeguard our team members, while safely continuing operations to the extent possible at our sites  across the globe. Revenue Recognition. We primarily derive revenue from the sale of process control and yield management solutions for  the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries, maintenance and support of all these products, installation and  training services and the sale of spare parts. Our portfolio also includes yield enhancement and production solutions used by  manufacturers of printed circuit boards, flat panel displays, advanced packaging, microelectromechanical systems and other  electronic components. Our solutions provide a comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data analytics products,  which are accompanied by a flexible portfolio of services to enable our customers to maintain the performance and productivity  of the solutions purchased. Our solutions are generally not sold with a right of return, nor have we experienced significant  returns from or refunds to our customers. The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in  the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in applying our accounting policies that  affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and  liabilities. We base these estimates and assumptions on historical experience and evaluate them on an ongoing basis to ensure  that they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the  development and selection of the critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a  quarterly basis, and the Audit Committee has reviewed our related disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The  accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most  critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions altering our business operations that we  determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and stakeholders, or as required by federal,  state, or local authorities. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in an increase in freight costs due in large part to reduced air  traffic, which impacts gross margin, as well as decreases in travel costs which reduce our cost structure. As of the date of this  report, we cannot predict with certainty any other effects the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, including the  effects on our customers, employees, or on our financial results for the remainder of calendar 2020.    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES Not all of the indicators need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer. In circumstances in  which revenue is recognized prior to the product acceptance, the portion of revenue associated with our performance  obligations to install product is deferred and recognized upon acceptance. We account for a contract with a customer when there is approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the  parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectibility of consideration is  probable. Our revenues are measured based on consideration stipulated in the arrangement with each customer, net of any sales  incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes. The revenues are recognized as separate  performance obligations that are satisfied by transferring control of the product or service to the customer. Our arrangements  with our customers include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and  accounted for as separate performance obligations. A product or service is considered distinct if it is separately identifiable  from other deliverables in the arrangement and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are  readily available to the customer. The transaction consideration, including any sales incentives, is allocated between separate  performance obligations of an arrangement based on the stand-alone selling prices (“SSP”) for each distinct product or service.  Management considers a variety of factors to determine the SSP, such as historical standalone sales of products and services,  discounting strategies and other observable data. From time to time, our contracts are modified to account for additional, or to  change existing, performance obligations. Our contract modifications are generally accounted for prospectively. We recognize revenue from product sales at a point in time when we have satisfied our performance obligation by  transferring control of the product to the customer. We use judgment to evaluate whether the control has transferred by  considering several indicators, including: •  whether we have a present right to payment;  •  the customer has legal title;  •  the customer has physical possession;  •  the customer has significant risk and rewards of ownership; and  •  the customer has accepted the product, or whether customer acceptance is considered a formality based on history of  acceptance of similar products (for example, when the customer has previously accepted the same tool, with the  same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance  criteria, and when the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory). Additionally, we offer product maintenance and support services, which the customer may purchase separately from the  standard and extended warranty offered as part of the initial product sale. Revenue from separately negotiated maintenance and  support service contracts is also recognized over time based on the terms of the applicable service period. Revenue from  services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including training revenue, is recognized when the related services  are performed. We also sell spare parts, revenue from which is recognized when control over the spare parts is transferred to the  customer. Our contracts with our customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services. Each product and  service is generally capable of being distinct within the context of the contract and represents a separate performance  obligation. Determining the SSP for each distinct performance obligation and allocation of consideration from an arrangement  to the individual performance obligations and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are significant judgments with  respect to these arrangements. We typically estimate the SSP of products and services based on observable transactions when  the products and services are sold on a standalone basis and those prices fall within a reasonable range. We typically have more  than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of these products by customers and circumstances. In  these instances, we use information such as the size of the customer, geographic region, as well as customization of the  products in determining the SSP. In instances where the SSP is not directly observable, we determine the SSP using information  that includes market conditions, entity-specific factors, including discounting strategies, information about the customer or class  of customer that is reasonably available and other observable inputs. While changes in the allocation of SSP between  performance obligations will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular contract, any material changes  could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on our financial position and result of  operations. Installation services include connecting and validating configuration of the product. In addition, several testing protocols  are completed to confirm the equipment is performing to customer specifications. Revenues from product installation are  deferred and recognized at a point in time, once installation is complete. Although the products are generally not sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or sales incentives,  which are accounted for either as variable consideration or material right, depending on the specific terms and conditions of the  arrangement. These credits and incentives are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if  and when additional information becomes available. As outlined above, we use judgments to evaluate whether or not the customer has obtained control of the product and  considers the several indicators in evaluating whether or not control has transferred to the customer. Not all of the indicators  need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer.  The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections may result in accounts receivable, contract assets, and  contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. A receivable is recorded in the period we deliver  products or provide services when we have an unconditional right to payment. Contract assets primarily relate to the value of  We enter into volume purchase agreements with some of our customers. We adjust the transaction consideration for  estimated credits earned by our customers for such incentives. These credits are estimated based upon the forecasted and actual  product sales for any given period and agreed-upon incentive rate. The estimate is updated at each reporting period. We offer perpetual and term licenses for software products. The primary difference between perpetual and term licenses  is the duration over which the customer can benefit from the use of the software, while the functionality and the features of the  software are the same. Software is generally bundled with post-contract customer support (“PCS”), which includes unspecified  software updates that are made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. Revenue from software licenses is  recognized at a point in time, when the software is made available to the customer. Revenue from PCS is deferred at contract  inception and recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.  The majority of product sales include a standard 6 to 12-month warranty that is not separately paid for by the customers.  The customers may also purchase extended warranty for periods beyond the initial year as part of the initial product sale. We  have concluded that the standard 12-month warranty as well as any extended warranty periods included in the initial product  sales are separate performance obligations for most of our products. The estimated fair value of warranty services is deferred  and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits  of warranty services provided by us. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value. Net realizable  value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal  and transportation. Demonstration units are stated at their manufacturing cost and written down to their net realizable value. We  review and set standard costs semi-annually at current manufacturing costs in order to approximate actual costs. Our  manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over  projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and  handling costs, and spoilage are recognized as current period charges. We write down product inventory based on forecasted  demand and technological obsolescence and service spare parts inventory based on forecasted usage. These factors are  impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction  and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and such  differences may have a material effect on recorded inventory values. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. A majority of our accounts receivable are derived from sales to large multinational  semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit  evaluations of our customers’ financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for probable credit losses  based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of the accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is  reviewed on a quarterly basis to assess the adequacy of the allowance. We take into consideration (1) any circumstances of Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and  assumptions to determine the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Although we believe  the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on  historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain.  Critical estimates in valuing certain acquired intangible assets include, but are not limited to future expected cash flows  including revenue growth rate assumptions from product sales, customer contracts and acquired technologies, expected costs to  develop in-process research and development into commercially viable products, estimated cash flows from the projects when  completed, including assumptions associated with the technology migration curve, estimated royalty rates used in valuing  technology related intangible assets, and discount rates. The discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to  present value are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and adjusted to reflect inherent risks.  Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that could affect either the accuracy or validity of such assumptions,  estimates or actual results. We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of our acquisitions to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and  intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (“IPR&D”), based on their estimated fair values. The  excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded  as goodwill. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but our estimates and  assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which will not  exceed one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the  corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of the  purchase price of our acquisitions, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our Consolidated  Statements of Operations. The fair value of IPR&D is initially capitalized as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment  thereafter whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the IPR&D assets may not be  recoverable. Impairment of IPR&D is recorded to research and development expenses. When an IPR&D project is completed,  the IPR&D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortized to costs of revenues over the asset’s  estimated useful life. A contract liability is recognized when we receive payment or have an unconditional right to payment in advance of the  satisfaction of performance. The contract liabilities represent (1) deferred product revenue related to the value of products that  have been shipped and billed to customers and for which the control has not been transferred to the customers, and (2) deferred  service revenue, which is recorded when we receive consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due, from a  customer prior to transferring services to the customer under the terms of a contract. Deferred service revenue typically results  from warranty services, and maintenance and other service contracts. Contract assets and liabilities related to rights and obligations in a contract are recorded net in the Consolidated Balance  Sheets.  products and services transferred to the customer for which the right to payment is not just dependent on the passage of time.  Contract assets are transferred to accounts receivable when rights to payment become unconditional. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. We review purchased finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances  indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of the assets are no longer  appropriate. We determine whether finite-lived intangible assets are recoverable based on the forecasted undiscounted future  cash flows that are expected to be generated by the lowest-level associated asset grouping. Assumptions and estimates about  future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible assets are complex and subjective. If the undiscounted cash flows  used in the recoverability test are less than the long-lived assets' carrying value, we recognize an impairment loss for the  amount that the carrying value exceeds the fair value. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets - Impairment Assessments. We review goodwill for impairment annually  during our third fiscal quarter as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be  fully recoverable. Pursuant to the authoritative guidance, we make certain judgments and assumptions to determine our  reporting units and in allocating shared assets and liabilities to those reporting units, which determines the carrying values for  each reporting unit. When assessing goodwill for impairment, an initial assessment of qualitative factors determines whether  the existence of events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its  carrying value. Judgments related to qualitative factors include macroeconomic conditions; industry and market considerations;  cost factors; overall financial performance; relevant entity-specific events; a sustained decrease in share price; and other events  affecting the reporting units. If we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its  carrying value, a quantitative test is then performed by estimating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing it to its  carrying value including goodwill.  If the former is lower, goodwill is written down by the excess amount, limited to the  amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. See Note 7 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" of the Consolidated  Financial Statements for additional information. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit using the market approach when deemed appropriate and the necessary  information is available, or the income approach which uses discounted cash flow ("DCF") analysis, or a combination of both.  If multiple valuation methodologies are used, the results are weighted. Determining fair value requires the exercise of  significant judgment, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, revenue growth rates and the amount and timing of  expected future cash flows. Discount rates are based on a weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”), which represents the  average rate a business must pay its providers of debt and equity, plus a risk premium. The WACC used to test goodwill is  derived from a group of comparable companies. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis are derived from internal  forecasts and external market forecasts. The market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by utilizing the  market comparable method which is based on revenue and earnings multiples from comparable companies. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Plans. We account for share-based awards in accordance with the  provisions of the authoritative accounting guidance, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense  for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors. Compensation expense for restricted stock units with  performance metrics is calculated based upon expected achievement of the metrics specified in the grant, or when a grant  contains a market condition, the grant date fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation. The Monte Carlo simulation fair value  model requires the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the award’s expected life, the price volatility of  the underlying stock, as well as the potential outcomes of the market condition on the grant date of each award. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances  indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. The authoritative accounting guidance allows a  qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the impairment testing guidance for  goodwill. It allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could have affected the  significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The qualitative factors assist in  determining whether it is more-likely-than-not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An organization may  choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to Contingencies and Litigation. We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Considerable  judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it  is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.  We accrue a liability and recognize as expense the estimated costs incurred to defend or settle asserted and unasserted claims  existing as of the balance sheet date. See Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 15 “Litigation and Other Legal  Matters” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. which we are aware of a customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations; and (2) our judgments as to prevailing economic  conditions in the industry and their impact on our customers. If circumstances change, such that the financial conditions of our  customers are adversely affected and they are unable to meet their financial obligations to us, we may need to record additional  allowances, which would result in a reduction of our net income. Valuation of Marketable Securities. Our investments in available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value.  Unrealized gains related to increases in the fair value of investments and unrealized losses related to decreases in the fair value  are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, as reported on our Consolidated Statements of  Stockholders’ Equity. However, changes in the fair value of investments impact our net income only when such investments are  sold or an impairment charge is recognized. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by specific  identification of the security’s cost basis. We periodically review our investment portfolio to determine if any investment is  other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns, which would require us to  record an impairment charge in the period during which any such determination is made. In making this judgment, we evaluate,  among other things, the duration of the investment, the extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost, the  credit rating and any changes in credit rating for the investment, default and loss rates of the underlying collateral, structure and  credit enhancements to determine if a credit loss may exist. Our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily calculating its fair value. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are in-process research and development ("IPR&D") intangible  assets. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between  the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. The guidance also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a  valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined  that a valuation allowance is necessary against a portion of the deferred tax assets, but we anticipate that our future taxable  income will be sufficient to recover the remainder of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability  to recover our deferred tax assets that are not subject to a valuation allowance, we could be required to record an additional  valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which  we determine that the recovery is not probable. On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The  effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each  region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many  factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a  material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and net asset value in the quarter in  which we recognize the impairment charge. See Note 7 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" of the Consolidated Financial  Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. We account for income taxes in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires income tax  effects for changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which the law is enacted. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In  accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain  tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the  weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including  resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount  that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a  quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in  tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition  of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) includes provisions for Global  Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) wherein taxes on foreign income are imposed in excess of a deemed return on  tangible assets of foreign corporations. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate in general. As a result, our  deferred tax assets and liabilities were being evaluated to determine if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be  recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for us after the fiscal  year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized as period costs in each year incurred. We  elected to account for GILTI as a component of current period tax expense starting from the first quarter of the fiscal year  ending June 30, 2019. We record income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries’ earnings are  considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Our effective tax rate would be adversely affected if we change our intent or  if such undistributed earnings are needed for U.S. operations because we would be required to provide or pay income taxes on  some or all of these undistributed earnings. The increase in service revenues by 26% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 compared to the prior year is primarily   attributable to service revenues from our newly acquired Orbotech business and an increase in the number of customers  requesting installations. Our business is affected by the concentration of our customer base and our customers’ capital equipment procurement  schedules as a result of their investment plans. Our product revenues in any particular period are significantly impacted by the  amount of new orders that we receive during that period and, depending upon the duration of manufacturing and installation  cycles, in the preceding period. The increase in product revenues by 28% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 compared to the prior year is primarily  attributable to product revenue from our newly acquired Orbotech business and increased investments from our foundry and  logic customers, partially offset by a lower products shipments to customers in the memory business. impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any  particular investment. For a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including those recently adopted and the expected dates of  adoption as well as estimated effects, if any, on our Consolidated Financial Statements of those not yet adopted, see Note 1,  “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the notes to our Consolidated Financial  Statements.    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Service revenues are generated from product maintenance and support services, as well as billable time and material  service calls made to our customers. The amount of our service revenues is typically a function of the number of systems  installed at our customers’ sites and the utilization of those systems, but it is also impacted by other factors, such as our rate of  service contract renewals, the types of systems being serviced and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Year ended June 30,                  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  2020    2019    2018    FY20 vs. FY19    FY19 vs. FY18  Revenues: Year ended June 30,                  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  2020    2019    2018    FY20 vs. FY19    FY19 vs. FY18  Revenues: Revenue from our Semiconductor Process Control segment increased by 16% primarily due to a strong demand from our  foundry and logic customers, and growth in service revenues. The increase in revenues from our Specialty Semiconductor  Process, PCB, Display and Component Inspection and Other segments is primarily driven by full year results for the year-ended  June 30, 2020 compared to partial year results for the year-ended June 30, 2019 and relates to the Orbotech business which was  acquired in February of 2019. A significant portion of our revenues continues to be generated in Asia, where a substantial portion of the world’s  semiconductor manufacturing capacity is located, and we expect that trend to continue.    Gross margin  (1)  Segment revenues exclude corporate allocation and the effects of foreign exchange rates. For additional details, refer to  Note 19 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  (2)  Segment revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 includes the component inspection business only.   (3)  Orbotech was acquired on February 20, 2019. Our gross margin fluctuates with revenue levels and product mix and is affected by variations in costs related to  manufacturing and servicing our products, including our ability to scale our operations efficiently and effectively in response to  prevailing business conditions. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing  Company Limited    Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 48  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. _________________   (1)  Segment gross margin is calculated as segment revenues less segment cost of revenues and excludes corporate  allocations and the effects of foreign exchange rates, amortization of intangible assets, inventory fair value adjustments,  and acquisition related costs. For additional details, refer to Note 19 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information”  to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  (2)  Segment gross margin in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 includes the component inspection business only.  (3)  Orbotech was acquired on February 20, 2019. Changes in gross margin percentage, which are driven by the revenue volume of products and services, reflect our ability  to leverage existing infrastructure to generate higher revenues. It also includes average customer pricing, customer revenue  deferrals associated with volume purchase agreements and the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Changes in gross  margin percentage from the mix of products and services sold reflect the impact of changes within the composition of product  and service offerings, and amortization of inventory fair value adjustments from business combinations. Changes in gross  margin percentage from manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies reflect our ability to manage costs and drive  productivity as we scale our manufacturing activity to respond to customer requirements, and amortization of intangible assets.  Changes in gross margin percentage from other service and manufacturing costs include the impact of customer support costs,  including the efficiencies with which we deliver services to our customers, and the effectiveness with which we manage our  production plans and inventory risk. The decrease in our gross margin from 59.1% to 57.9%  during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 is primarily  attributable to an increase in amortization of intangibles related to the acquisition of Orbotech, unfavorable mix of products and  services sold, and an increase in service and manufacturing costs.  These decreases were partially offset by a favorable impact  from higher revenue volume of products and services. Segment gross margin(1)  Fiscal year ended June 30, 2018  64.1  %  Revenue volume of products and services  (1.0) %  Mix of products and services sold  0.7  %  Manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies  (1.6) %  Other service and manufacturing costs  (0.5) %  Impact from acquisition of Orbotech  (2.6) %  Fiscal year ended June 30, 2019  59.1  %  Revenue volume of products and services  1.5  %  Mix of products and services sold  (0.8) %  Manufacturing labor, overhead and efficiencies  0.5  %  Intangible Amortization  (1.6) %  Other service and manufacturing costs  (0.8) %  Fiscal year ended June 30, 2020  57.9  % Year ended June 30,                  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  2020    2019    2018    FY20 vs. FY19    FY19 vs. FY18  Segment gross margin:                      Semiconductor Process Control  $ 3,028,167   $ 2,590,434    $ 2,554,223    $ 437,733     17 %  $ 36,211     1  %  Specialty Semiconductor Process  183,641     78,800     —     104,841     133 %   78,800     (3) R&D expenses may fluctuate with product development phases and project timing as well as our R&D efforts. As  technological innovation is essential to our success, we may incur significant costs associated with R&D projects, including  compensation for engineering talent, engineering material costs, and other expenses. R&D expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were higher compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019,  primarily due to an increase in employee-related expenses of $50.2 million as a result of additional engineering headcount,   higher employee benefit costs and higher variable compensation and an increase of $100.2 million of expenses from the  Orbotech business, partially offset by a decrease in travel and entertainment expense of $4.3 million. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to produce products and provide services that have a  competitive advantage in our marketplace. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make substantial and focused  investments in our research and development. We remain committed to product development in new and emerging  technologies. SG&A expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 were higher compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019,  primarily due to an increase in employee-related expenses of $33.7 million as a result of additional headcount, higher employee  benefit costs and variable compensation, an increase in depreciation expense of $12.5 million and expenses related to the  Orbotech business of  $115.6 million, which includes an increase in amortization expense for purchased intangible assets of  $30.8 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in acquisition-related expenses of $29.1 million, lower travel- related expenses of $11.6 million, and $10.9 million of stock-based compensation expense from acceleration of certain equity  awards for Orbotech employees recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019.     Goodwill Impairment We performed our annual impairment assessment of goodwill as of February 28, 2020 and concluded that there was no  impairment of goodwill for the Wafer Inspection and Patterning, Global Service and Support, and Component Inspection  reporting units. However, due to the downward revision of financial outlook for the Specialty Semiconductor Process and PCB and  Display reporting units as well as the impact of elevated risk and macroeconomic slowdown driven by the COVID-19  pandemic, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment assessment for these reporting units. As a result, we recorded  $144.2 million and $112.5 million in impairment charges in the Specialty Semiconductor Process and PCB and Display  reporting units, respectively, in the three months ended March 31, 2020. For our fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, we performed our annual qualitative assessment of goodwill during the third  quarter and concluded that there was no impairment. Year ended June 30,                  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  2020    2019    2018    FY20 vs. FY19    FY19 vs. FY18  R&D expenses  $ 863,864   $ 711,030    $ 608,531    $ 152,834     21  %  $ 102,499     17  % Year ended June 30,                  (Dollar amounts in thousands)  2020    2019    2018    FY20 vs. FY19    FY19 vs. FY18  SG&A expenses  $ 734,149   $ 599,124   $ 442,304   $ 135,025     23  %  $ 156,820     35  % The primary factors impacting the performance of our segment gross margins are summarized as follows:  •  Semiconductor Process Control segment gross margin remained relatively consistent from prior years.    •  The segment gross margins of Specialty Semiconductor Process, PCB, Display and Component Inspection and  Other segments primarily relate to the Orbotech business, which was acquired in February 2019. Tax expense was lower as a percentage of income before taxes during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 compared to  the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 primarily due to the impact of the following items:  •  Tax expense decreased by $13.7 million relating to an increase in the Foreign Derived Intangible Income deduction  during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020; The increase in interest expense during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30,  2019, was primarily due to interest on the $1.20 billion Senior Notes issued in March 2019. Other expense (income), net is comprised primarily of realized gains or losses on sales of marketable securities, gains or  losses from revaluations of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities as well as foreign currency contracts, and  interest-related accruals (such as interest and penalty accruals related to our tax obligations) and interest income earned on our  invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. In September 2019, management approved a plan to streamline our organization and business processes that included the  reduction of workforce, which is expected to be completed in the second half of our fiscal year 2021, primarily in our PCB,  Display and Component Inspection segment. Restructuring charges were $7.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, and the  accrual for restructuring charges was $5.7 million at June 30, 2020. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, loss on extinguishment of debt reflected a pre-tax net loss of $22.5  million associated with the redemption of our $500.0 million of the Senior Notes due 2021, including associated redemption  premiums, accrued interest and other fees and expenses. We had no loss on extinguishment of debt in the year ended June 30,  2019. We expect to incur additional restructuring charges in future periods in connection with the completion of our workforce  reduction. For additional information refer to Note 20 “Restructuring Charges” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated  Financial Statements. The decrease in other expense (income), net during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 compared to the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in interest income of $17.2 million, other impairments of $8.8 million, and foreign  exchange losses of $4.6 million.  In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we entered into an Asset Purchase  Agreement to sell certain core assets of our non-strategic solar energy business. This transaction resulted in a loss of $1.9 million,  which was included in other expense (income) in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for fiscal 2020. (Dollar amounts in thousands)  2020    2019    2018  Income before income taxes  $  1,316,711    $  1,296,231   $  1,455,931    Provision for income taxes  $  101,686    $  121,214   $  653,666    Effective tax rate  7.7 %   9.4 %   44.9  % In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012  through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all net  operating losses (“NOLs”) available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 229.0 million (equivalent to approximately  $66.0 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index as of date of the  issuance of the Tax Decrees). In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. We are subject to  federal income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 and are under United States  income tax examination for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. We are subject to state income tax examinations for all years  beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. We are also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions,  including Singapore and Israel, for all years beginning from the calendar year ended December 31, 2012. We are under audit in  Germany related to Orbotech for the years ended December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2015.  We are also under audit in Israel  related to KLA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2019.  Although we believe our tax estimates are  reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical  income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of  operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”). The ITA completed  the second stage of the audit, in which the claims Orbotech raised in the Objection were examined by different personnel at the  ITA. In addition, the ITA examined additional items during this second stage of the audit. As Orbotech and the ITA did not  reach an agreement during the second stage, the ITA issued Tax Decrees to Orbotech on August 28, 2019 (“Tax Decrees”) for  an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all NOLs available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 257 million  (equivalent to approximately $74 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price  index as of the date of the issuance of the Tax Decrees). These Tax Decrees replaced the Assessment. We believe that our  recorded unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the resolution of these Tax Decrees. Our future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of  our pre-tax income, the amount of our pre-tax income as business activities fluctuate, non-deductible expenses incurred in  connection with acquisitions, research and development credits as a percentage of aggregate pre-tax income, non-taxable or  non-deductible increases or decreases in the assets held within our Executive Deferred Savings Plan, the tax effects of  employee stock activity and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. Our effective tax rate during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was impacted by the Tax Cuts and  Jobs Act (“the Act”), which was enacted into law on December 22, 2017. The following items are the tax impact as a result of  the Act:     • Tax expense decreased by $50.9 million relating to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0%  to 28.1% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and tax expense decreased by $49.9 million relating to the  reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 28.1% to 21.0% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. The  Act reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% as of January 1, 2018. The decrease in the U.S.  federal corporate tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% results in a blended statutory tax rate of 28.1% for the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2018;  •  Tax expense increased by $339.6 million relating to the one-time transition tax recorded during the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2018 on our total post-1986 earnings and profits (“E&P”) of which, prior to the enactment of the Act, was  previously deferred from U.S. income taxes;  •  Tax expense increased by $102.1 million relating to the one-time re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and  liabilities recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 based on the Act’s new corporate tax rate of 21.0%;  and  •  Tax expense decreased by $19.3 million relating to the transition tax liability during the fiscal year ended June 30,  2019. •  Tax expense decreased by $6.9 million relating to a decrease in the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income during the  fiscal year ended June 30, 2020;  •  Tax expense decreased by $23.6 million relating to the impact of an increase in the proportion of KLA’s earnings  +generated in jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate during the fiscal year ended June 30,  2020; and  •  Tax expense decreased by $34.3 million relating to the impact of an internal restructuring during the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2020; partially offset by  •  Tax expense increased by $53.9 million relating to a $256.6 million goodwill impairment charge, which is non- deductible for income tax. As of June 30, 2020, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1.98 billion, which represents an  increase of $0.24 billion from June 30, 2019. The increase is mainly due to net proceeds from our 2020 Senior Notes of $0.74  billion, net proceeds from our revolving credit facility of $0.45 billion and cash generated from operations of $1.78 billion,  partially offset by repayments of debt of $1.17 billion, payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $0.52 billion, stock  repurchases of $0.83 billion and capital expenditures of $0.15 billion.  As of June 30, 2020, $0.82 billion of our $1.98 billion of  cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. We currently intend  to indefinitely reinvest $0.53 billion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries for  which we assert that earnings are permanently reinvested. If, however, a portion of these funds were to be repatriated to the  United States, we would be required to accrue and pay state and foreign taxes of approximately 1%-22% of the funds  repatriated. The amount of taxes due will depend on the amount and manner of the repatriation, as well as the location from  which the funds are repatriated. We have accrued state and foreign tax on the remaining cash of $0.29 billion of the $0.82  billion held by our foreign subsidiaries and branch offices. As such, these funds can be returned to the U.S. without accruing  any additional U.S. tax expense. On March 27, 2020, The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law which  included several tax relief provisions.  As a result of the CARES Act, we have deferred payment of certain payroll taxes to the  federal government through December 31, 2022 and accelerated the tax deduction of qualified improvement property.  The  provisions of the CARES Act do not have a material impact to our liquidity and we are not expecting a material tax refund.        Liquidity and Capital Resources    As of June 30, Orbotech filed a notice of appeal with respect to the above Tax Decrees with the District Court of Tel Aviv on September  26, 2019. On February 27, 2020 the ITA filed its arguments in support of the Tax Decrees. Orbotech filed the grounds of appeal  with respect to the above Tax Decrees on July 30, 2020. The ITA and Orbotech are continuing discussions in an effort to  resolve this matter in a mutually agreeable manner. In connection with the above, there is an ongoing criminal investigation in Israel against Orbotech, certain of its  employees and its tax consultant. On April 11, 2018, Orbotech received a “suspect notification letter” (dated March 28, 2018)  from the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Fiscal and Financial). In the letter, it was noted that the investigation file was  transferred from the Assessment Investigation Officer to the District Attorney’s Office. The letter further states that the District  Attorney’s Office has not yet made a decision regarding submission of an indictment against Orbotech; and that if after  studying the case, a decision is made to consider prosecuting Orbotech, Orbotech will receive an additional letter, and within 30  days, Orbotech may present its arguments to the District Attorney’s Office as to why it should not be indicted. On October 27,  2019, we received a request for additional information from the District Attorney's Office. We will continue to monitor the  progress of the District Attorney’s Office investigation; however, we cannot anticipate when the review of the case will be  completed and what will be the results thereof. We intend to cooperate with the District Attorney’s Office to enable them to  conclude their investigation. On August 6, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.90 per share.  Refer to Note 21 “Subsequent Events” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the  declaration of our quarterly cash dividend announced subsequent to June 30, 2020. On November 19, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding  common stock. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction  under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt  financing disclosed in Note 8 “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. The total amount  of the special cash dividend accrued by us at the declaration date was substantially paid out during the three months ended  December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested RSUs to  be paid when such underlying unvested RSUs vest. Payments of the special cash dividend with respect to vested restricted stock  units during the fiscal years ended June 30,  2019 and 2018 were $2.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively, and by the end of  the second quarter of fiscal 2019 all of the special cash dividend accrued with respect to outstanding RSUs had vested and been  paid in full. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, we historically  have not declared any special cash dividends. The total amounts of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividends equivalents paid during the fiscal years ended  June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $522.4 million, $469.4 million and $395.6 million, respectively. The increase in the amount  of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividends equivalents paid during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 reflected the  increase in the level of our regular quarterly cash dividend from $0.75 to $0.85 per share that was instituted during the three  months ended December 31, 2019. The amounts of accrued dividend equivalents payable for regular quarterly cash dividends  on unvested restricted stock units (“RSUs”) with dividend equivalent rights were $8.3 million and $7.3 million as of June 30,  2020 and 2019, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying unvested RSUs as described in Note  10 “Equity, Long-term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The shares repurchased under our stock repurchase program have reduced our basic and diluted weighted-average shares  outstanding for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019. The stock repurchase program is intended, in part, to offset  shares issued in connection with the purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) program and the vesting of  employee restricted stock units. Net cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was $0.26 billion compared to net cash  used by investing activities of $1.18 billion during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. This decrease was mainly due to a  decrease in cash paid for business acquisitions of $1.73 billion, partially offset by higher net purchases of marketable securities  of $0.79 billion. We have historically financed our liquidity requirements through cash generated from operations. Net cash provided by  operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 increased by $0.63 billion compared to the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2019, from $1.15 billion to $1.78 billion, primarily as a result of the following factors:  •  An increase in collections of approximately $1.67 billion mainly driven by higher shipments and inclusion of  Orbotech during the entire 2020 fiscal year;  •  Lower merger and acquisition costs of approximately $29.0 million; partially offset by the following:   •  A decrease in interest income of approximately $16.0 million mainly due to lower average cash balances and  interest rates;   •  An increase in accounts payable payments of approximately $619.0 million mainly due to the inclusion of Orbotech  during the entire 2020 fiscal year;  •  An increase in employee-related payments of approximately $391.0 million mainly due to the inclusion of Orbotech  during the entire 2020 fiscal year;  •  An increase of debt interest payments of approximately $47.0 million related to Senior Notes issued in March 2019  for the Orbotech acquisition and early redemption of 2021 Senior Notes. As of June 30, 2020, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior  Notes. In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of Senior Notes  by at least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our rights to redeem the Senior Notes of such series,  we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s Senior Notes of that  series pursuant to the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”). In the Change of Control Offer, we will be  required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes repurchased plus accrued  and unpaid interest, if any, on the Senior Notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase. The original discounts on the 2020 Senior Notes, the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to $0.3  million, $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively, and are being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable as  follows:  semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year for the 2020 Senior Notes; semi-annually on March 15 and  September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes; and semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014  Senior Notes.  The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on  our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback  transactions are not restricted. In January 2020, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“2020 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the 30-year  treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the 2020 Senior Notes. The 2020 Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount  of $350.0 million in aggregate and matured in the same quarter. The 2020 Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date  of the pricing of the $750.0 million of 3.300% Senior Notes due in 2050 and we recorded the fair value of $21.5 million as a  loss within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“OCI”) as of March 31, 2020, which will be amortized over the  life of the debt. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock  Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate with notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate. In October 2014, we  entered into a series of forward contracts to lock the 10-year treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the 2014 Senior  Notes with a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate. For additional details, refer to Note 17 “Derivative Instruments and  Hedging Activities” and Note 8 “Debt” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 2020, March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $750.0 million, $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion,  respectively (each a "2020 Senior Notes", a “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”),  aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes. In February 2020 and October 2019, we repaid $500.0 million  and $250.0 million of Senior Notes, respectively. In February 2020, S&P upgraded its credit rating of the Company to “BBB+” and revised its outlook to stable, which   permanently removed interest rate adjustments and the interest rate on the 2014 Senior Notes became fixed. The interest rate for  each series of the 2020 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes are not subject to adjustments. In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five- year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to  the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the  aggregate. In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the  “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30,  2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the  Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment. After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the  Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, we borrowed $450.0 million from the  Revolving Credit Facility and made a principal payment of $400.0 million. As of June 30, 2020, we had outstanding $50.0  million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. Net cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 increased compared to the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2019, from $0.36 billion to $1.30 billion. This change was mainly impacted by lower net proceeds from  borrowings of $1.16 billion, partially offset by a decrease in cash used for common stock repurchases of $0.27 billion. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2020 (the interest expense coverage  ratio was 13.97 to 1.00 and the leverage ratio was 1.56 to 1.00). Considering our current liquidity position, short-term financial  forecasts and ability to prepay the Revolving Credit Facility, if necessary, we expect to continue to be in compliance with our  financial covenants at the end of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021.    Contractual Obligations __________________    (1)  Represents $3.45 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due from fiscal year 2025 to fiscal year 2050  and  $50.0 million principal amount of Revolving Credit Facility due in fiscal year 2024. The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit  Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition,  we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to  1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a  period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions. As of June 30, 2020, our maximum  allowed leverage ratio was 3.50 to 1.00. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either: (i) the Alternative Base Rate  (“ABR”) plus a spread, which ranges from 0 bps to 75 bps, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread,  which ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps. The spreads under ABR and LIBOR are subject to adjustment in conjunction with credit  rating downgrades or upgrades. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the  Revolving Credit Facility, which ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps, subject to an adjustment in conjunction with changes to our  credit rating. As of June 30, 2020, we elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility at  LIBOR plus a spread of 112.5 bps and we pay an annual commitment fee of 12.5 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the  Revolving Credit Facility. We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time  such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and  unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time  without a prepayment penalty. We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $81.7 million, of which  $68.7 million had been issued as of June 30, 2020, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax  (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel, and Asia. Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not  material for the periods presented. (2)  The interest payments associated with the Senior Notes payable included in the table above are based on the principal  amount multiplied by the applicable interest rate for each series of Senior Notes. Our future interest payments are subject  to change if our then effective credit rating is below investment grade as discussed above. The interest payment under the  Revolving Credit Facility for the undrawn balance is payable at 12.5 bps as a commitment fee based on the daily  undrawn balance and we utilized the existing rate for the projected interest payments included in the table above. Our  future interest payments for the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to change due to any upgrades or downgrades to our  then effective credit rating.  (3)  Represents an estimate of significant commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as an estimate of  significant purchase commitments associated with goods, services and other assets in the ordinary course of business.  Our obligation under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed  upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers. Actual expenditures will vary  based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid  under these arrangements may be less in the event the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements  provide for potential cancellation penalties.  (4)  Represents the estimated income tax payable obligation related to uncertain tax positions as well as related accrued  interest. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to  uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes.  (5)  Represents the amount committed under our cash long-term incentive program. The expected payment after estimated  forfeitures is approximately $160.2 million.  (6)  Represents an estimate of expected benefit payments up to fiscal year 2030 that was actuarially determined and excludes  the minimum cash required to contribute to the plan. As of June 30, 2020, our defined benefit pension plans do not have  material required minimum cash contribution obligations.  (7)  Represents the amount committed under our non-qualified executive deferred compensation plan. We are unable to make  a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to the uncertainties in the timing around  participant’s separation and any potential changes that participants may decide to make to the previous distribution  elections.  (8)  Represents the transition tax liability associated with our deemed repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings as a result  from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs-Act into law on December 22, 2017.  (9)  Represents severance payments due upon dismissal of an employee or upon termination of employment in certain other  circumstances as required under Israeli law.  (10) Represents amounts committed for accrued dividends payable for quarterly cash dividends for unvested restricted stock  units granted with dividend equivalent rights. For additional details, refer to Note 10 “Equity, Long-term Incentive  Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”) program for many of our employees as part of our  employee compensation program. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan (“Cash LTI  Plan”) generally vest in three or four equal installments. For additional details, refer to Note 10 “Equity, Long-term Incentive  Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from  customers without recourse. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from  customers in payment for goods and services. As of June 30, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC  Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial position, changes in  financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are  material to investors. Refer to Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for  information related to indemnification obligations. Working capital was $3.02 billion as of June 30, 2020, which represents an increase of $477.2 million compared to our  working capital as of June 30, 2019. As of June 30, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $1.98 billion of cash,  cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our liquidity may be affected by many factors, some of which are based on the  normal ongoing operations of the business, spending for business acquisitions, and other factors such as uncertainty in the  global and regional economies and the semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device industries. Although cash  requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, we believe that cash generated from operations,  together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents balances and our $1.00 billion Revolving Credit  Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with working capital needs, capital expenditures, cash  dividends, stock repurchases and other contractual obligations, including repayment of outstanding debt, for at least the next 12  months. Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment,  conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, our financial position, material acquisitions and  changes in our business strategy.    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2020, we had net forward and option contracts to sell $89.4 million in foreign currency in order to hedge  certain currency exposures (see Note 17 “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” to our Consolidated Financial  Statements for additional details). If we had entered into these contracts on June 30, 2020, the U.S. dollar equivalent would  have been $88.7 million. A 10% adverse move in all currency exchange rates affecting the contracts would decrease the fair  value of the contracts by $39.0 million. However, if this occurred, the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the  contracts would increase by a similar amount. Accordingly, we believe that, as a result of the hedging of certain of our foreign  currency exposure, changes in most relevant foreign currency exchange rates should have no material impact on our results of  operations or cash flows. See Note 5 “Marketable Securities” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8; Management’s  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in Part II,  Item 7; and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of recent market events that  may affect the value of the investments in our portfolio that we held as of June 30, 2020. In February 2020, March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $750.0 million, $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion,  respectively, (each, a “2020 Senior Notes”, “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior  Notes”) aggregate principal amount of fixed rate senior, unsecured long-term notes. The fair market value of long-term fixed  interest rate notes is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate notes will increase as  interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of June 30, 2020, the fair value and the book value of our Senior Notes  were $4.01 billion and $3.45 billion, respectively, due in various fiscal years ranging from 2024 to 2050. The interest expense  for the 2014 Senior Notes was subject to interest rate adjustments following downgrade of our credit ratings below investment  grade by the credit rating agencies. In February 2020, S&P upgraded its credit rating of the Company to “BBB+” and revised  its outlook to stable, which permanently removed interest rate adjustments and the interest rate on the 2014 Senior Notes  became fixed.  Unlike the 2014 Senior Notes, the interest rate for each series of the 2019 Senior Notes are not subject to such  adjustments.    In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) for a $750.0 million five-year  unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Agreement. Subject to  the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the  aggregate. In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the  “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30,  2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the  Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment. After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the  Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion.   As of June 30, 2020, we had outstanding $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of  borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of June 30, 2020, we elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under  the Revolving Credit Facility at the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread. The spread ranges from 100 bps  to 175 bps based on the adjusted credit rating. The fair value of the borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility is subject to  interest rate risk only to the extent of the fixed spread portion of the interest rates which does not fluctuate with changes in  interest rates. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee of 12.5 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the  Revolving Credit Facility which is subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades. The  annual commitment fee ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, depending  upon the then-effective credit rating. As of June 30, 2020, if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 bps, the change  would increase our annual interest expense annually by approximately $0.5 million as it relates to our borrowings under the  Revolving Credit Facility. Additionally as of June 30, 2020, if our credit ratings were downgraded to be below investment  grade, the maximum potential increase to our annual commitment fee for the Revolving Credit Facility, using the highest range  of the ranges discussed above, is estimated to be approximately $0.9 million. As of June 30, 2020, we had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities of $717.5 million These securities, as with  all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market  interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 bps from levels as of June 30, 2020, the fair value of the  portfolio would have declined by $4.7 million. ITEM  7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and  marketable equity security prices. To mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency  hedges. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analysis performed on our financial position as of  June 30, 2020. Actual results may differ materially. ITEM  8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2020 and 2019  61 Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 1,000 shares authorized, none outstanding  —     — Common stock, $0.001 par value, 500,000 shares authorized, 277,526 and 276,202  shares issued, 155,461 and 159,475 shares outstanding, as of June 30, 2020 and  June 30, 2019, respectively  155     159 See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  KLA CORPORATION Basic  $  7.76   $  7.53   $  5.13   Diluted  $  7.70  $  7.49  $  5.10  Basic  156,797    156,053     156,346   Diluted  158,005   156,949    157,378  Total revenues  5,806,424    4,568,904     4,036,701 See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   KLA CORPORATION See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    Year ended June 30, Cash dividends ($2.52 per share) and dividend Cash dividends ($3.00 per share) and dividend Cash dividends ($3.30 per share) and dividend See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Consolidated Financial Statements to conform to the current  year presentation. The reclassifications did not have material effects on the prior year’s Consolidated Balance Sheets,  Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows. Effective on the first day of fiscal 2019, we adopted ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).  Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended  June 30, 2018 was prepared using accounting standards that were different from those in effect for the years ended June 30,  2019 and 2020.  Comparability. Effective on the first day of fiscal 2020, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 842,  Leases (“ASC 842”). Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of  June 30, 2019 and the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were prepared using  accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the year ended June 30, 2020. Description of Business and Principles of Consolidation. For purposes of this report, “KLA,” the “Company,” “we,”  “our,” “us,” or similar references mean KLA Corporation, and its majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context requires  otherwise. We are a supplier of process equipment, process control equipment, and data analytics products for a broad range of  industries, including semiconductors, printed circuit boards and displays. We provide advanced process control and process- enabling solutions for manufacturing and testing wafers and reticles, integrated circuits (“IC” or “chip”), packaging, light  emitting diodes, power devices, compound semiconductor devices, microelectromechanical systems, data storage, printed  circuit boards and flat and flexible panel displays, as well as general materials research. Our comprehensive portfolio of  inspection, metrology and data analytics products, and related services, helps integrated circuit manufacturers achieve target  yield throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process, from research and development to final volume production. We  develop and sell advanced vacuum deposition and etching process tools, which are used by a broad range of specialty  semiconductor customers. We enable electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and measure printed circuit boards  (“PCBs”) and flat panel displays (“FPDs) and ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired electronic circuitry on the relevant  substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of materialized circuits on multiple surfaces. Our advanced products, coupled  with our unique yield management services, allow us to deliver the solutions our semiconductor, printed circuit board and  display customers need to achieve their productivity goals, by significantly reducing their risks and costs. Headquartered in  Milpitas, California, we have subsidiaries both in the United States and in key markets throughout the world. Acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. On February 20, 2019 (the “Closing Date” or “Acquisition Date”), we completed the  acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) for $38.86 in cash and 0.25 of a share of our common stock in exchange for each  ordinary share of Orbotech for a total consideration of $3.26 billion. The acquisition of Orbotech is referred to as the “Orbotech  Acquisition”. The Orbotech Acquisition was accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting for business  combinations. The Consolidated Financial Statements in this report include the financial results of Orbotech prospectively from  the Acquisition Date. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations.” Management Estimates. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting  principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions in  applying our accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (and related disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities) at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses  during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of KLA and its majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant  intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities. All highly liquid debt instruments with original or remaining maturities  of less than three months at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Marketable securities are generally  classified as available-for-sale for use in current operations, if required, and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and  losses, net of tax, presented as a separate component of stockholders’ equity under the caption “Accumulated other  comprehensive income (loss).” All realized gains and losses and unrealized losses resulting from declines in fair value that are  other than temporary are recorded in earnings in the period of occurrence. The specific identification method is used to  determine the realized gains and losses on investments. For all investments in debt and equity securities, we assess whether the  impairment is other than temporary. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost basis, an impairment is  considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required Property and Equipment. Property and equipment are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of  property and equipment is based on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The following table  sets forth the estimated useful life for various asset categories: Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value. Net realizable  value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less costs of completion, disposal and transportation.  Demonstration units are stated at their manufacturing cost and written down to their net realizable value. We review and set  standard costs at current manufacturing costs in order to approximate actual costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for  product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess  capacity. Abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and spoilage are  recognized as current period charges. We write down product inventory based on forecasted demand and technological  obsolescence and service spare parts inventory based on forecasted usage. These factors are impacted by market and economic  conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may  include uncertain elements. Actual demand may differ from forecasted demand, and such differences may have a material effect  on recorded inventory values. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. A majority of our accounts receivable are derived from sales to large multinational  semiconductor manufacturers throughout the world. In order to monitor potential credit losses, we perform ongoing credit  evaluations of our customers’ financial condition. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for probable credit losses  based upon our assessment of the expected collectibility of the accounts receivable. The allowance for doubtful accounts is  reviewed on a quarterly basis to assess its adequacy. Variable Interest Entities. We use a qualitative approach in assessing the consolidation requirement for variable interest  entities. The approach focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities that most significantly  impact the variable interest entity’s economic performance and which enterprise has the obligation to absorb losses or the right  to receive benefits from the variable interest entity. In the event we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, the  assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the variable interest entity will be included in our Consolidated Financial  Statements. We have concluded that none of our equity investments require consolidation based on our most recent qualitative  assessment. Non-Marketable Equity Securities. We acquire certain non-marketable equity investments for the promotion of business  and strategic objectives. Non-marketable equity securities do not give us the ability to exercise significant influence over the  investees and are accounted for at cost, less impairment, plus or minus observable price changes for identical or similar  securities of the same issuer. Non-marketable equity securities are included in “Other non-current assets” on the balance sheet.  Non-marketable equity securities are subject to a periodic impairment review; however, since there are no open-market  valuations, the impairment analysis requires significant judgment. This analysis includes assessment of the investee’s financial  condition, the business outlook for its products and technology, its projected results and cash flow, financing transactions  subsequent to the acquisition of the investment, the likelihood of obtaining subsequent rounds of financing and the impact of  any relevant contractual equity preferences held by us or the others. Construction-in-process assets are not depreciated until the assets are placed in service. Depreciation expense for the  fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $101.4 million, $72.6 million and $53.3 million, respectively. to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (ii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost  of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (i), the entire difference between the  amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary  based on condition (ii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash  flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount  relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). We evaluate both qualitative and  quantitative factors such as duration and severity of the unrealized losses, credit ratings, default and loss rates of the underlying  collateral, structure and credit enhancements to determine if a credit loss may exist. The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably  certain that the option will be exercised. The right-of-use (“ROU”) asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability,  adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments and any lease incentives. Variable lease payments, consisting  primarily of reimbursement of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance, real estate taxes, and insurance are not  included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.   As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to  measure ROU assets and lease liabilities. The incremental borrowing rate used by us is based on baseline rates and adjusted by  the credit spreads commensurate with our secured borrowing rate, over a similar term. We used the incremental borrowing rate  on June 30, 2019 for all leases that commenced on or prior to that date. Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a  straight-line basis over the lease term. We have elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component  for the majority of our asset classes. For leases with a term of one year or less, we have elected not to record the ROU asset or  liability.    Goodwill, Purchased Intangible Assets and Impairment Assessment. Purchased intangible assets that are not  considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which generally range from six  months to nine years. The carrying values of our intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. Recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets is  measured by comparison of the carrying value of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to  generate. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparison of the carrying value of the asset to its  fair value. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the  carrying value and the fair value. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate the carrying value of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes  in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized when  estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset, including disposition, are less than the carrying value of  the asset. Such an impairment charge would be measured as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over its fair value. Concentration of Credit Risk. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk  consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, trade accounts receivable and derivative financial  instruments used in hedging activities. We invest in a variety of financial instruments, such as, but not limited to, certificates of  deposit, corporate debt and municipal securities, United States Treasury and Government agency securities, and equity  securities and, by policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer. We  have not experienced any material credit losses on our investments. A majority of our accounts receivable are derived from sales to large multinational semiconductor manufacturers located  throughout the world, with a majority located in Asia. In recent years, our customer base has become increasingly concentrated  due to corporate consolidations, acquisitions and business closures, and to the extent that these customers experience liquidity  issues in the future, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to trade receivables. We perform Leases. Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset  for a period of time. We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms  of the contract are agreed to, and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations. The commencement date of the lease  is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for our use. On the commencement date leases are evaluated for  classification and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a business combination over the fair value of the net tangible and  intangible assets acquired. We assess goodwill for impairment annually during our third fiscal quarter and whenever events or  changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. We have the option to perform an  assessment of qualitative factors of impairment prior to necessitating a quantitative impairment test. The former is performed  when the fair value of a reporting unit historically has significantly exceeded the carrying value of its net assets and, based on  current operations, is expected to continue to do so. In the qualitative assessment, if we determine that it is more likely than not  that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, a quantitative test is then performed, which involves a  comparison of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value including goodwill. We determine the fair value  of a reporting unit using the income approach which uses discounted cash flow ("DCF") analysis, the market approach when  deemed appropriate and the necessary information is available, or a combination of both. If the fair value of a reporting unit is  less than its carrying value, a goodwill impairment charge is recorded for the difference. See Note 7 "Goodwill and Other  Intangible Assets" for additional information. Any further impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our  operating results and net asset value in the quarter in which we recognize the impairment charge. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties on the foreign exchange contracts that we  use in hedging activities and in certain factoring transactions. These counterparties are large international financial institutions,  and to date no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to us under such contracts. For derivative instruments designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated  transactions or debt financing expected to occur within twelve to eighteen months, the effective portion of the gains or losses is  reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods  during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. In the second quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, we early  adopted the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting. Prior to adopting this new accounting guidance, time value was  excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Time value was  amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract. For derivative contracts  executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is  made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges. The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI  until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. The assessment effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash  flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance. The initial value of the component ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and generally require little to no collateral to secure accounts  receivable. We maintain an allowance for potential credit losses based upon expected collectibility risk of all accounts  receivable. In addition, we may utilize letters of credit, credit insurance or non-recourse factoring to mitigate credit risk when  considered appropriate. Our manufacturing subsidiaries in Singapore, Israel, Germany, and United Kingdom use the U.S. dollar as their functional  currency. Accordingly, monetary assets and liabilities in non-functional currency of these subsidiaries are remeasured using  exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Revenues and costs in local currency are remeasured using average exchange  rates for the period, except for costs related to those balance sheet items that are remeasured using historical exchange rates.  The resulting remeasurement gains and losses are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as incurred. Derivative Financial Instruments. We use financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency  options, to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions. The purpose of  our foreign currency program is to manage the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated  revenues, costs and eventual cash flows. The effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to  offset the effect of exchange rate changes on the underlying hedged items. We also use interest rate lock agreements to hedge  the risk associated with the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of the intended debt  financing. We believe these financial instruments do not subject us to speculative risk that would otherwise result from changes  in currency exchange rates or interest rates. All of our derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value based upon  quoted market prices for comparable instruments adjusted for risk of counterparty non-performance. Foreign Currency. The functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are primarily the local currencies, except as  described below. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities of these foreign operations are translated to U.S. dollars at current period  end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated to U.S. dollars using average exchange rates in effect during the  period. The gains and losses from foreign currency translation of these subsidiaries’ financial statements are recorded directly  into a separate component of stockholders’ equity under the caption “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited   Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 70  Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Not all of the indicators need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer. In circumstances in  which revenue is recognized prior to the product acceptance, the portion of revenue associated with our performance  obligations to install product is deferred and recognized upon acceptance.  We enter into volume purchase agreements with some of our customers. We adjust the transaction consideration for  estimated credits earned by our customers for such incentives. These credits are estimated based upon the forecasted and actual  product sales for any given period and agreed-upon incentive rate. The estimate is updated at each reporting period. excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contracts. Any  difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in  OCI. For derivative instruments that are not designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses are recognized in other expense  (income), net. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities.  The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities  being hedged. Revenue Recognition. We primarily derive revenue from the sale of process control and yield management solutions for  the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries, maintenance and support of all these products, installation and  training services and the sale of spare parts. Our solutions provide a comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data  analytics products, which are accompanied by a flexible portfolio of services to enable our customers to maintain the  performance and productivity of the solutions purchased. The acquisition of Orbotech enabled us to broaden our portfolio to  include the yield enhancement and production solutions used by manufacturers of printed circuit boards, flat panel displays,  advanced packaging, microelectromechanical systems and other electronic components. Our arrangements with our customers include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable  of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. A product or service is considered distinct if it is  separately identifiable from other deliverables in the arrangement and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other  resources that are readily available to the customer. We recognize revenue from product sales at a point in time when we have satisfied our performance obligation by  transferring control of the product to the customer. We use judgment to evaluate whether the control has transferred by  considering several indicators, including:  •  whether we have a present right to payment;  •  the customer has legal title;  •  the customer has physical possession;  •  the customer has significant risk and rewards of ownership; and  •  the customer has accepted the product, or whether customer acceptance is considered a formality based on history of  acceptance of similar products (for example, when the customer has previously accepted the same tool, with the same  specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria, and  when the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory). The transaction consideration, including any sales incentives, is allocated between separate performance obligations of an  arrangement based on the stand-alone selling prices (“SSP”) for each distinct product or service. Management considers a  variety of factors to determine the SSP, such as, historical standalone sales of products and services, discounting strategies and  other observable data. From time to time, our contracts are modified to account for additional, or to change existing, performance obligations.  Our contract modifications are generally accounted for prospectively.  Our solutions are generally not sold with a right of return, nor have we experienced significant returns from or refunds to  our customers. We account for a contract with a customer when there is approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the  parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectibility of consideration is  probable.  Our revenues are measured based on consideration stipulated in the arrangement with each customer, net of any sales  incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes. The revenues are recognized as separate  performance obligations that are satisfied by transferring control of the product or service to the customer. We offer perpetual and term licenses for software products. The primary difference between perpetual and term licenses is  the duration over which the customer can benefit from the use of the software, while the functionality and the features of the  software are the same. Software is generally bundled with post-contract customer support (“PCS”), which includes unspecified  software updates that are made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. Revenue from software licenses is  recognized at a point in time, when the software is made available to the customer. Revenue from PCS is deferred at contract  inception and recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed. As outlined above, we use judgments to evaluate whether or not the customer has obtained control of the product and  considers the several indicators in evaluating whether or not control has transferred to the customer. Not all of the indicators  need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer. The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections may result in accounts receivable, contract assets, and  contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. A receivable is recorded in the period we deliver  products or provide services when we have an unconditional right to payment. Contract assets primarily relate to the value of  products and services transferred to the customer for which the right to payment is not just dependent on the passage of time.  Contract assets are transferred to receivables when rights to payment become unconditional. Our contracts with our customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services. Each product and  service is generally capable of being distinct within the context of the contract and represents a separate performance  obligation. Determining the SSP for each distinct performance obligation and allocation of consideration from an arrangement  to the individual performance obligations and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are significant judgments with  respect to these arrangements. We typically estimate the SSP of products and services based on observable transactions when  the products and services are sold on a standalone basis and those prices fall within a reasonable range. We typically have more  than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of these products by customers and circumstances. In  these instances, we use information such as the size of the customer, geographic region, as well as customization of the  products in determining the SSP. In instances where the SSP is not directly observable, we determine the SSP using information  that includes market conditions, entity-specific factors, including discounting strategies, information about the customer or class  of customer that is reasonably available and other observable inputs. While changes in the allocation of SSP between  performance obligations will not affect the amount of total revenue recognized for a particular contract, any material changes  could impact the timing of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on our financial position and result of  operations. Although the products are generally not sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or sales incentives,  which are accounted for either as variable consideration or material right, depending on the specific terms and conditions of the  arrangement. These credits and incentives are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if  and when additional information becomes available. Additionally, we offer product maintenance and support services, which the customer may purchase separately from the  standard and extended warranty offered as part of the initial product sale. Revenue from separately negotiated maintenance and  support service contracts is also recognized over time based on the terms of the applicable service period. Revenue from  services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including training revenue, is recognized when the related services  are performed. We also sell spare parts, revenue from which is recognized when control over the spare parts is transferred to the  customer.  The majority of product sales include a standard 6 to 12-month warranty that is not separately paid for by the customers.  The customers may also purchase extended warranty for periods beyond the initial year as part of the initial product sale. We  have concluded that the standard 12-month warranty as well as any extended warranty periods included in the initial product  sales are separate performance obligations for most of our products. The estimated fair value of warranty services is deferred  and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits  of warranty services provided by us. Installation services include connecting and validating configuration of the product. In addition, several testing protocols  are completed to confirm the equipment is performing to customer specifications. Revenues from product installation are  deferred and recognized at a point in time, once installation is complete. Accounting for Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan. We have a non-qualified deferred compensation plan  (known as “Executive Deferred Savings Plan”) under which certain executives and non-employee directors may defer a portion  of their compensation. Participants are credited with returns based on their allocation of their account balances among  measurement funds. We control the investment of these funds, and the participants remain general creditors of ours. We invest  these funds in certain mutual funds and such investments are classified as trading securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Investments in trading securities are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position. Unrealized holding gains and  losses for trading securities are included in earnings. Distributions from the Executive Deferred Savings Plan commence  following a participant’s retirement or termination of employment or on a specified date allowed per the Executive Deferred  Savings Plan provisions, except in cases where such distributions are required to be delayed in order to avoid a prohibited  distribution under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Participants can generally elect the distributions to be paid in lump  sum or quarterly cash payments over a scheduled period for up to 15 years and are allowed to make subsequent changes to their  existing elections as permissible under the Executive Deferred Savings Plan provisions. The liability associated with the  Executive Deferred Savings Plan is included as a component of other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Changes in the Executive Deferred Savings Plan liability is recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the  Consolidated Statements of Operations. The expense associated with changes in the liability included in selling, general and  administrative expense was $13.3 million, $13.6 million and $19.9 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and  2018, respectively. We also have a deferred compensation asset that corresponds to the liability under the Executive Deferred  Savings Plan and it is included as a component of other non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the  Executive Deferred Savings Plan assets are recorded as gains (losses), net in selling, general and administrative expense in the Accounting for Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation. Cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI”)  awards issued to employees under our Cash LTI program vests in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth  of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each yearly anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year  period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable  award vesting date. Compensation expense related to the Cash LTI awards is recognized over the vesting term and adjusted for  the impact of estimated forfeitures. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Plans. We account for stock-based awards granted to employees for  services based on the fair value of those awards. The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is  recognized as expense over the employee’s requisite service period. The fair value for restricted stock units granted without  “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude  the present value of dividends which are not accrued on the restricted stock units. The fair value for restricted stock units  granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The  award holder is not entitled to receive payments under dividend equivalent rights unless the associated restricted stock unit  award vests (i.e., the award holder is entitled to receive credits, payable in cash or shares of common stock, equal to the cash  dividends that would have been received on the shares of our common stock underlying the restricted stock units had the shares  been issued and outstanding on the dividend record date, but such dividend equivalents are only paid subject to the recipient  satisfying the vesting requirements of the underlying award). Compensation expense for restricted stock units with performance  metrics is calculated based upon expected achievement of the metrics specified in the grant, or when a grant contains a market  condition, the grant date fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation. The Monte Carlo simulation incorporates estimates of the  potential outcomes of the market condition on the grant date fair value of each award. Additionally, we estimate forfeitures  based on historical experience and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from the estimated  amounts. The fair value is determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model for purchase rights under our Employee Stock  Purchase Plan. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of assumptions, including the option’s expected term  and the expected price volatility of the underlying stock. The expected stock price volatility assumption is based on the market- based historical implied volatility from traded options of our common stock. A contract liability is recognized when we receive payment or have an unconditional right to payment in advance of the  satisfaction of performance. The contract liabilities represent (1) deferred product revenue related to the value of products that  have been shipped and billed to customers and for which the control has not been transferred to the customers, and (2) deferred  service revenue, which is recorded when we receive consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due, from a  customer prior to transferring services to the customer under the terms of a contract. Deferred service revenue typically results  from warranty services, and maintenance and other service contracts. Contract assets and liabilities related to rights and obligations in a contract are recorded net in the Consolidated Balance  Sheets. Shipping and Handling Costs. Shipping and handling costs are included as a component of cost of sales.  Research and Development Costs. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of our acquisitions to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and  intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (“IPR&D”), based on their estimated fair values. The  excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded  as goodwill. Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but our estimates and  assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which will not  exceed one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the  corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) includes provisions for Global Intangible  Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”) wherein taxes on foreign income are imposed in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of  foreign corporations. We elected to account for GILTI as a component of current period tax expense starting from the first  quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. Business Combinations. Accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and  assumptions to determine the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Although we believe  the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based, in part, on  historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain.  Critical estimates in valuing certain acquired intangible assets include, but are not limited to future expected cash flows  including revenue growth rate assumptions from product sales, customer contracts and acquired technologies, expected costs to  develop in-process research and development into commercially viable products, estimated cash flows from the projects when  completed, including assumptions associated with the technology migration curve, estimated royalty rates used in valuing  technology related intangible assets, and discount rates. The discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to  present value are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and adjusted to reflect inherent risks.  Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that could affect either the accuracy or validity of such assumptions,  estimates or actual results. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between  the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. The guidance also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a  valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We have determined  that a valuation allowance is necessary against a portion of the deferred tax assets, but we anticipate that our future taxable  income will be sufficient to recover the remainder of our deferred tax assets. However, should there be a change in our ability  to recover our deferred tax assets that are not subject to a valuation allowance, we could be required to record an additional  valuation allowance against such deferred tax assets. This would result in an increase to our tax provision in the period in which  we determine that the recovery is not probable. Income Taxes. We account for income taxes in accordance with the authoritative guidance, which requires income tax  effects for changes in tax laws are recognized in the period in which the law is enacted.   Consolidated Statements of Operations. The amount of net gains included in selling, general and administrative expense were  $13.9 million, $14.7 million and $19.5 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The effective  tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region,  availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. We carefully monitor the changes in many factors  and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material  effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In  accordance with the authoritative guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for uncertain  tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the  weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including  resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount  that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a  quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in  tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition  of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. We record income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries’ earnings are  considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Our effective tax rate would be adversely affected if we change our intent or  if such undistributed earnings are needed for U.S. operations because we would be required to provide or pay income taxes on  some or all of these undistributed earnings. In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which replaces existing incurred loss impairment guidance  and requires an entity to measure expected credit losses for certain financial instruments and financial assets including trade  receivables.  This new standard also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities. This new standard is  effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021.  We plan to adopt the standard in the first  quarter of fiscal 2021 using the modified retrospective transition method. We do not currently believe the adoption will have a  material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations, pending further evaluation of  potential economic recession and disruption associated with the current COVID-19 pandemic. In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which modifies the existing accounting standards for fair  value measurement disclosure. This update eliminates the disclosure of the amount of and reasons for transfers between level 1  and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and the policy for timing of transfers between levels. This standard update is effective We adopted the new standard on July 1, 2019, the first day of fiscal 2020, using the optional adoption method whereby we  did not adjust comparative period financial statements. Consequently, prior period balances and disclosures have not been  restated. We elected certain practical expedients, which among other things, allowed us to carry forward prior conclusions  about lease identification and classification. The adoption of ASC 842 resulted in the balance sheet recognition of additional  lease assets and lease liabilities of $110.7 million and $108.7 million, respectively, related primarily to facilities, vehicles and  other equipment. The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the Consolidated  Statement of Operations, Cash Flows, or earnings per share. Additionally, the adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material  impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements for arrangements in which we are the lessor. For additional information  regarding our leases, see Note 9 “Leases” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.    Updates Not Yet Effective The fair value of IPR&D is initially capitalized as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment   thereafter whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the IPR&D assets may not be  recoverable. Impairment of IPR&D is recorded to research and development expenses. When an IPR&D project is completed,  the IPR&D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortized to costs of revenues over the asset’s  estimated useful life. purchase price of our acquisitions, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our Consolidated  Statements of Operations. Consistent with ASC 840, leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern  of expense recognition in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In July 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard  update which amended ASC 842 and offered an additional (and optional) transition method by which entities could elect not to  recast the comparative periods presented in financial statements in the period of adoption. Contingencies and Litigation. We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Considerable  judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it  is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.  We accrue a liability and recognize as expense the estimated costs to defend or settle asserted and unasserted claims existing as  of the balance sheet date. See Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 15 “Litigation and Other Legal Matters”  for additional details. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 842 which supersedes the lease  recognition requirements in ASC 840, Leases, (“ASC 840”).  The most prominent of the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition  of right of use ("ROU") assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. Net Income Per Share. Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common  stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is  calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period increased to include the  number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential shares of common  stock had been issued. The dilutive effect of restricted stock units and options is reflected in diluted net income per share by  application of the treasury stock method. The dilutive securities are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share  when a net loss is recorded for the period as their effect would be anti-dilutive. Recent Accounting Pronouncements   Recently Adopted  Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to amend the disclosure requirements related to defined  benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant  gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period and removing the amounts in accumulated other  comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year. This  standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is  permitted. We do not expect a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption of this accounting  standard update.  In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation  costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation  costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The guidance clarifies which costs should be capitalized including the  cost to acquire the license and the related implementation costs. This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first  quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with an option to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. Early  adoption is permitted. We do not expect a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption of this  accounting standard update. for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted. We do not expect a  material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption of this accounting standard update. The following table represents the opening and closing balances of accounts receivable, contract assets and contract  liabilities for the indicated periods.    As of    As of     As of              (In thousands, except for percentage)  June 30, 2020  June 30, 2019   July 1, 2018   Change in Fiscal 2020    Change in Fiscal 2019 In December 2019, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the accounting for income taxes in ASC  740, Income Taxes, (“ASC 740”). This amendment removes certain exceptions and improves consistent application of  accounting principles for certain areas in ASC 740. The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year  ending June 30, 2022, and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard  update on our Consolidated Financial Statements.    NOTE 2 — REVENUE Our payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment of  70% to 90% of total contract consideration within 30 to 60 days of shipment, with the remainder payable within 30 days of  acceptance. Contract assets are included in other current asset and contract liabilities are included in current and non-current  liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The change in contract assets during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was mainly due to $70.9 million of contract  assets reclassified to net accounts receivable as our right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional,  partially offset by $71.4 million of revenue recognized for which the payment is subject to conditions other than the passage of  time. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, we recognized revenue of $456.0 million that was included in contract  liabilities as of June 30, 2019. This was partially offset by the value of products and services billed to customers for which  control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers. As of June 30, 2020, we had $2.13 billion of remaining performance obligations, which represents our obligation to  deliver products and services, and consists primarily of sales orders where written customer requests have been received. We  expect to recognize approximately 5% to 15% of these performance obligations as revenue beyond the next twelve months,  subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the customer, usually with limited or no penalties. Fair Value of Financial Instruments. We have evaluated the estimated fair value of financial instruments using  available market information and valuations as provided by third-party sources. The use of different market assumptions and/or  estimation methodologies could have a significant effect on the estimated fair value amounts. The fair value of our cash  equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts  due to the relatively short maturity of these items. Fair Value Hierarchy. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that  prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted  quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable  inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below:  Level 1   Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the  ability to access.       Level 2  Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not  active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the  full term of the assets or liabilities.       Level 3  Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the  fair value of the assets or liabilities. Our financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for our debt and certain equity  investments in privately held companies. Equity investments without a readily available fair value are accounted for using the  measurement alternative. The measurement alternative is calculated as cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes  resulting from observable price changes. Our non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are assessed for  impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The principal market in which we execute our foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter  environment with a relatively high level of price transparency. The market participants generally are large financial institutions.  Our foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data  sources and do not involve management judgment. These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value  hierarchy. Refer to Note 19 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” for information related to revenue by geographic  region as well as significant product and service offerings.     NOTE 3 — FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The types of instruments valued based on other observable inputs included corporate debt securities, sovereign securities,  municipal securities and certain U.S. Treasury securities. The market inputs used to value these instruments generally consist of  market yields, reported trades and broker/dealer quotes. Such instruments are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair  value hierarchy. A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to  the fair value measurement. As of June 30, 2020, the types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets included money  market funds, certain U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities. Such instruments are generally classified  within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. •  We account for shipping and handling costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer goods, instead of a promised  service to our customer.  •  We have elected to not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing  component as we expect, at contract inception, that the period between when we transfer a promised good or service to  a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will generally be one year or less.  •  We have elected to expense costs to obtain a contract as incurred because the expected amortization period is one year  or less. __________________   (1)  Excludes cash of $460.8 million held in operating accounts and time deposits of $78.7 million as of June 30, 2020. The fair value of deferred payments and contingent consideration payable, the majority of which were recorded in  connection with business combinations, were classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not  observable in the market. See Note 6 “Business Combinations” for additional information. Total financial liabilities  $  (23,673)   $  —   $  (1,410)  $  (22,263)  Corporate debt securities  $  —    $  —   $  —   $  —   Money market funds and other  694,950     694,950     —     —   U.S. Government agency securities  —     —     —     —   U.S. Treasury securities  —     —     —     —   Corporate debt securities  381,957     —     381,957     —   Municipal securities  29,110     —     29,110      Sovereign securities  2,017     —     2,017     —   U.S. Government agency securities  106,336     106,336     —     —   U.S. Treasury securities  181,193     151,210     29,983     —   Total cash equivalents and marketable securities(1)  1,395,563     952,496     443,067     —   Derivative assets  2,077     —     2,077     —   Executive Deferred Savings Plan  213,487     166,000     47,487     — __________________   (1)  Excludes cash of $479.8 million held in operating accounts and time deposits of $99.0 million as of June 30, 2019.   There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020  or 2019.  See Note 8 “Debt” for disclosure of the fair value of our Senior Note Total financial liabilities  $  (26,139)   $  —   $  (3,334)  $  (22,805)   Corporate debt securities  $  10,988    $  —   $  10,988   $  —    Money market funds and other  352,708     352,708     —    —    U.S. Government agency securities  27,994     —     27,994    —    U.S. Treasury securities  55,858     —     55,858    —    Corporate debt securities  422,089     —     422,089    —    Municipal securities  1,913     —     1,913    —    Sovereign securities  5,994     —     5,994    —    U.S. Government agency securities  131,224     131,224     —    —    U.S. Treasury securities  151,838     151,838     —    —    Total cash equivalents and marketable securities(1)  1,160,606     635,770     524,836    —    Derivative assets  2,557     —     2,557    —    Executive Deferred Savings Plan  207,581     158,021     49,560    — The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a  component of net periodic cost for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019 were $1.2 million and $1.1 million,  respectively. For additional details, refer to Note 13 “Employee Benefit Plans.” ________________  (1)  Reflects the adoption of the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. For  additional details, refer to Note 17 “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” Our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum maturity of three  years. The longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond  yields. As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. Most of our  unrealized losses are due to changes in market interest rates, and bond yields. We believe that we have the ability to realize the  full value of all of these investments upon maturity. As of June 30, 2020, we had 40 investments in an unrealized loss position.  The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses of our investments that were in an unrealized loss  position as of the date indicated below, none of which were in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more: __________________   (1)  Time deposits excluded from fair value measurements. As of June 30, 2020 (In thousands)  Corporate debt securities  $  379,334    $  2,673    $  (50)  $  381,957   Money market funds and other  694,950     —     —     694,950   Municipal securities  28,859     251     —     29,110   Sovereign securities  2,009     8     —     2,017   U.S. Government agency securities  106,091     252     (7)    106,336   U.S. Treasury securities  179,631     1,564     (2)    181,193   Subtotal  1,390,874     4,748     (59)    1,395,563   Add: Time deposits(1)  124,153     —     —     124,153   Less: Cash equivalents  773,653     —     —     773,653   Marketable securities  $  741,374    $  4,748    $  (59)  $  746,063 As of June 30, 2019 (In thousands)  Corporate debt securities  $  433,518    $  141    $  (582)  $  433,077   Money market funds and other  352,708     —     —     352,708   Municipal securities  1,910     3     —     1,913   Sovereign securities  6,001     1     (8)    5,994   U.S. Government agency securities  159,454     5     (241)    159,218   U.S. Treasury securities  208,058     39     (401)    207,696   Subtotal  1,161,649     189     (1,232)    1,160,606   Add: Time deposits(1)  99,006     —     —     99,006   Less: Cash equivalents  536,206     17     (2)    536,221   Marketable securities  $  724,449    $  172    $  (1,230)  $  723,391 As of June 30, 2020 (In thousands)  Fair Value    Corporate debt securities  $  44,429   $  (50)  Municipal securities  870     0  Sovereign securities  —     —   U.S. Government agency securities  9,951     (7)  U.S. Treasury securities  19,010     (2)  Total  $  74,260   $  (59) On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech, a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process- enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products. We acquired Orbotech to extend and enhance its portfolio of  products to address market opportunities in the printed circuit board, flat panel display, advanced packaging and semiconductor  manufacturing areas. The total purchase price for Orbotech was approximately $3.26 billion, which consisted of (1) approximately $1.7 billion  in cash net of $215.6 million cash acquired; (2) 12.3 billion shares of KLA’s common stock valued at approximately  $1.3 billion and (3) $13.3 million for the fair values of stock options and RSUs assumed. The Orbotech Acquisition was  accounted for as a business combination and we have included the financial results of Orbotech in our Consolidated Financial  Statements since the Acquisition Date. Our Consolidated Statements of Operations include revenue of $388.9 million and a net  loss of $61.6 million from Orbotech for the year ended June 30, 2019. The $54.2 million of goodwill was assigned to the Wafer Inspection and Patterning reporting unit and was not deductible  for income tax purposes. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay  obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. Realized gains on available for sale securities were immaterial for the  fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018. Realized losses on available for sale securities were $1.4 million for the fiscal  year ended June 30, 2019 and were immaterial for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2018. We have included the financial results of the fiscal 2020 acquisitions in our Consolidated Financial Statements from their  respective acquisition dates, and these results were not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements. On April 24, 2020, we acquired a product line from a public company for total purchase consideration of $11.4 million, of  which $2.2 million was allocated to goodwill. Goodwill recognized was assigned to the Wafer Inspection and Patterning  reporting unit, and was deductible for income tax purposes. On August 22, 2019, we acquired the outstanding shares of a privately held company, primarily to expand our products  and services offerings, for a total purchase consideration of $94.0 million inclusive of measurement period adjustments of  $0.2 million as well as the fair value of the promise to pay an additional consideration up to $60.0 million contingent on the  achievement of certain revenue milestones. As of June 30, 2020, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was  $8.9 million, which was classified as a non-current liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (In thousands)  Fair Value  Net tangible assets (including Cash and cash equivalents of $6.6 million)  $  7,196   Deferred tax liabilities  (15,265)   Identifiable intangible assets  47,931   Goodwill  54,168   Total  $  94,030 During the quarter ended December 31, 2019, we finalized the allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair value  of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Since the Acquisition, we have recorded measurement period adjustments to  reflect facts and circumstances in existence as of the Acquisition Date. These adjustments primarily related to the valuation of  acquired intangible assets of $75.5 million, trade accounts receivable of $21.5 million, non-controlling interest of $17.4 million,  other immaterial adjustments of $6.1 million, and related impacts on the deferred income tax liabilities of $47.5 million  recorded during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019; the valuation of individually insignificant net tangible  assets of $2.1 million recorded during the first quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020; and the additional reserves for  uncertain tax positions of $16.9 million and other individually insignificant items of $10.4 million with related impacts on the  deferred income tax liabilities of $8.8 million recorded in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. These  adjustments resulted in the corresponding increase to goodwill of $34.0 million and $38.2 million in the fiscal years ended June  30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The purchase price was allocated to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and  liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values, which were determined using generally accepted valuation techniques  on the basis of inputs and assumptions made by management at the time of the Orbotech Acquisition. On December 24, 2018, Orbotech acquired the remaining 50% of the shares of Frontline for $85.0 million in cash and  agreed to pay an additional $10.0 million in cash over four years plus a cash earn-out of not less than $5.0 million and up to  $20.0 million.  As of June 30, 2020, the estimated fair market values of the four-year cash payment and the earn-out were  $6.7 million and $3.3 million, respectively, and these amounts have been included in current and non-current liabilities at  $2.5 million and $7.5 million, respectively. The goodwill was primarily attributable to the assembled workforce of Orbotech, planned growth in new markets and  synergies expected to be achieved from the combined operations of KLA and Orbotech. None of the goodwill is deductible for  income tax purposes. Goodwill arising from the acquisition of Orbotech has been allocated to the Specialty Semiconductor Based on their estimated fair values, we recorded $13.2 million of net tangible assets, $75.1 million of identifiable  intangible assets and $45.4 million of goodwill related to our other fiscal 2019 acquisitions, $26.3 million of which was  allocated to Wafer Inspection and Patterning reporting unit, $17.9 million was allocated to GSS reporting unit and $1.2 million  was allocated to Component Inspection reporting unit. We believe the amounts of purchased intangible assets represent the fair values of and approximate the amounts  a market  participant would pay for these intangible assets as of the Acquisition Date. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, we acquired five privately held companies primarily to expand our products  and services offerings. These acquisitions were not individually significant. We have included the financial results of the  acquired companies in our Consolidated Financial Statements from their respective acquisition dates, and the results from each  of these companies were not individually material to our consolidated financial statements.  In the aggregate, the total purchase price for these acquisitions was approximately $133.7 million, including a post- closing working capital adjustment, and the fair value of the promise to pay additional consideration of up to $19.0 million  contingent on the achievement of certain milestones. As of June 30, 2020, the estimated fair value of the additional  consideration was $3.2 million, which was classified as a non-current liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Process and the PCB and Display reporting units during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. For additional details, refer to  Note 7 “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets”. KLA, in the aggregate for the Orbotech and other fiscal 2019 acquisitions, incurred approximately $40.2 million of  acquisition-related costs which are primarily included within selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated  Statements of Operations. KLA incurred insignificant acquisition-related costs for the fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2018 acquisitions.    Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Information: The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations for KLA,  Orbotech, and the three acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as if the companies were combined as of the  beginning of fiscal 2018. The unaudited pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for  intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, the purchase  accounting effect on inventory acquired, the purchase accounting effect on deferred revenue, interest expense and amortization  of debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes financing, and transaction costs. Two of the fiscal 2019 acquisitions and  the fiscal 2020 acquisitions do not have material impact on our consolidated financial statements; therefore, the pro forma  financial information has not been presented for these acquisitions. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we acquired a product line from Keysight Technologies, Inc., a related party, for a  total purchase consideration of $12.1 million, of which $5.2 million was allocated to goodwill based on the fair value at the  acquisition date. Goodwill recognized was deductible for income tax purposes. See Note 18 “Related Party Transactions” for  additional details. The goodwill was primarily attributable to the assembled workforce and planned growth in new markets. A portion of the  goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes. We determined the fair values of these reporting units using the results derived from income and market valuation  approaches and applied a weighting of 75 percent and 25 percent, respectively. The income approach is estimated through  discounted cash flow analysis. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was computed by adding the present value of the  estimated annual discounted cash flows over a discrete projection period to the residual value of the business at the end of the  projection period. This valuation technique requires us to use significant estimates and assumptions, including long-term  growth rates, discounts rates and other inputs. The estimated growth rates for the projection period are based on our internal  forecasts of anticipated future performance of the business. The residual value is estimated based on a perpetual nominal  growth rate, which is based on projected long-range inflation and long-term industry projections. Discount rates are based on a  weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”), which represents the average rate a business must pay its providers of debt and  equity, plus a risk premium. The WACC used to test goodwill is derived from a group of comparable peer companies. The  market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by utilizing the market comparable method, which is based on  revenue and earnings multiples from comparable companies. There can be no assurance that these estimates and assumptions Goodwill is not subject to amortization but is tested for impairment annually during the third fiscal quarter as well as  whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We performed the  required annual goodwill impairment test as of February 28, 2020. We completed qualitative assessments for all reporting units  and concluded that goodwill was not impaired for the Wafer Inspection and Patterning, Global Service and Support, and  Component Inspection reporting units. However, due to the downward revision of the financial outlook for the Specialty  Semiconductor Process and PCB and Display reporting units as well as the impact of elevated risk and macroeconomic  slowdown driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment assessment for these two  reporting units. As a result of the assessment, we recorded $144.2 million and $112.5 million in impairment charges in the  Specialty Semiconductor Process and PCB and Display reporting units, respectively, during the quarter ended March 31, 2020. The unaudited pro forma information presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative  of our consolidated results of operations of the combined business had the acquisitions actually occurred at the beginning of  fiscal year 2018 or of the results of our future operations of the combined businesses.      Year ended June 30, _________________  (1)  No goodwill was assigned to the Other reporting unit, and accordingly is not disclosed in the table above.     NOTE 7 — GOODWILL AND PURCHASED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Following an update of the organizational structure during the fiscal year 2019, we have four reportable segments and six  operating segments.  The operating segments are determined to be the same as reporting units. The following table presents  goodwill carrying value and the movements by reporting unit during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019(1): Goodwill as of June 30, 2020 is net of accumulated impairment losses of $534.2 million. $277.6 million was included in  the Wafer Inspection and Patterning reporting unit, $144.2 million was included in the Specialty Semiconductor Process  reporting unit, and $112.5 million was included in the PCB and Display reporting unit. will prove to be an accurate prediction of the future, and a downward revision of these estimates and/or assumptions would  decrease the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in additional impairment charges in the future. Purchased intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the  carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be fully recoverable. The impairment indicator primarily includes the  declines in our operating cash flows from the use of these assets. If the impairment indicators are present, we are required to  perform a recoverability test by comparing the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows attributable to these long- lived assets to their carrying value. As of February 28, 2020, no impairment indicator was present except for intangible assets acquired from Orbotech  acquisition due to the downward revision of its financial outlook and the impact of elevated risk and macroeconomic slowdown  driven by the COVID- 19 pandemic. We performed the required recoverability test and concluded that there was no impairment  based on the assessment.  To perform a recoverability test, we are required to group long-lived assets and liabilities at the lowest levels for which  identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. For the intangible assets acquired  from Orbotech, the asset group levels at which we performed the recoverability test were the Specialty Semiconductor Process  and PCB and Display business level. The change in the gross carrying amounts of intangible assets is due to the acquisition of certain privately held companies.  For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations.” Goodwill as of June 30, 2019 and 2018 is net of accumulated impairment losses of $277.6 million, which were recorded  prior to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. As of June 30, 2019, all of accumulated impairment losses were included in the  Wafer Inspection and Patterning reporting unit. As of June 30, 2018, approximately $1.0 million and $276.6 million of  accumulated impairment losses were included in the Wafer Inspection reporting unit and the Patterning reporting unit,  respectively. There have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to the assessment  performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The next annual assessment of goodwill by reporting unit  is scheduled to be performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021. As of June 30, 2020, future principal payments for the long-term debt are $50.0 million in fiscal year 2024, $1.25 billion  in fiscal year 2025 and $2.20 billion after fiscal year 2025. In February 2020, we issued $750 million ("2020 Senior Notes")  aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long- term notes under which the proceeds were used to redeem $500.0 million of Senior Notes due 2021, including associated  The following table summarizes our debt as of June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019:    As of June 30, 2020    As of June 30, 2019 Fixed-rate 3.375% Senior Notes due on November 1, 2019  —     —  %   250,000     3.377  %  Fixed-rate 4.125% Senior Notes due on November 1, 2021  —     —  %   500,000     4.128  %  Fixed-rate 4.650% Senior Notes due on November 1, 2024  1,250,000     4.682  %   1,250,000     4.682  %  Fixed-rate 5.650% Senior Notes due on November 1, 2034  250,000     5.670  %   250,000     5.670  %  Fixed-rate 4.100% Senior Notes due on March 15, 2029  800,000     4.159  %   800,000     4.159  %  Fixed-rate 5.000% Senior Notes due on March 15, 2049  400,000     5.047  %   400,000     5.047  %  Fixed-rate 3.300% Senior notes due on March 1, 2050  750,000     3.302  %   —     —  %  Revolving Credit Facility  50,000     1.310  %   —     —  %  Unamortized discount  (8,167)       (8,738)     Unamortized debt issuance costs  (22,163)       (17,880) In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of Senior Notes  by at least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our rights to redeem the Senior Notes of such series,  we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s Senior Notes of that  series pursuant to the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”). In the Change of Control Offer, we will be  required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes repurchased plus accrued  and unpaid interest, if any, on the Senior Notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase. The original discounts on the 2020 Senior Notes, the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to  $0.3 million, $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively and are being amortized over the life of the debt. Interest is payable as  follows: semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year for the 2020 Senior Notes; semi-annually on March 15 and  September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes; and semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014  Senior Notes. The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our  facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback  transactions are not restricted. Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of June 30,  2020 and June 30, 2019 was approximately $4.01 billion and $3.70 billion, respectively. While the Senior Notes are recorded at  cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the  long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy. As of June 30, 2020, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior  Notes. In January 2020, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“2020 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the 30-year  treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the 2020 Senior Notes. The 2020 Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount  of $350.0 million in aggregate and matured in the same quarter. The 2020 Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date  of the pricing of the $750.0 million of 3.300% Senior Notes due in 2050 and we recorded the fair value of $21.5 million as a  loss within Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“OCI”) as of March 31, 2020, which will be amortized over the  life of the debt. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock  Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate with notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate. In October 2014, we  entered into a series of forward contracts to lock the 10-year treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the 2014 Senior  Notes with a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate. For additional details on the forward contracts, refer to Note 17  “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”. redemption premiums, accrued interest and other fees and expenses, to repay borrowings of $200.0 million under the Revolving  Credit Facility, and for other general corporate purposes. The redemption resulted in a pre-tax net loss on extinguishment of  debt of $22.5 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five- year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility. Subject to  the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the  aggregate. In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the  “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30,  2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the  Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment. After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the  Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, we borrowed $450.0 million from the  Revolving Credit Facility and made a principal payment of $400.0 million.  As of June 30, 2020, we had outstanding  $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. In March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion, respectively (each, a “2019 Senior Notes”,  a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”), aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes.  In October 2019, we repaid $250.0 million of Senior Notes.  In February 2020, S&P upgraded its credit rating of the Company to “BBB+” and revised its outlook to stable, which  permanently removed interest rate adjustments and the interest rate on the 2014 Senior Notes became fixed. The interest rate for  each series of the 2020 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes are not subject to adjustments. Lease expense for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 was $35.1 million. Expense related to short-term leases, which are  not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, was not material for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020.  At June 30, 2020,  the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 5.1 years and 1.99%,  respectively. The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit  Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00. In addition,  we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to  1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a  period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions. As of June 30, 2020, our maximum  allowed leverage ratio to 3.50 to 1.00. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either: (i) the Alternative Base Rate  (“ABR”) plus a spread, which ranges from 0 bps to 75 bps, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread,  which ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps. The spreads under ABR and LIBOR are subject to adjustment in conjunction with credit  rating downgrades or upgrades. We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the  Revolving Credit Facility, which ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps, subject to an adjustment in conjunction with changes to our  credit rating. As of June 30, 2020, we elected to pay interest on the borrowed amount under the Revolving Credit Facility at  LIBOR plus a spread of 112.5 bps, and we pay an annual commitment fee of 12.5 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the  Revolving Credit Facility. We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time  such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and  unpaid interest, must be repaid. We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time  without a prepayment penalty. We have operating leases for facilities, vehicles and other equipment. Our facility leases are primarily used for  administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution.  Our finance leases are not  material. Our existing leases do not contain significant restrictive provisions or residual value guarantees; however, certain leases  contain provisions for payment of maintenance, real estate taxes, or insurance costs by us. Our leases have remaining lease  terms ranging from less than one year to sixteen years, including periods covered by options to extend the lease when it is  reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2020.    Note 9 — LEASES As of the Acquisition Date, the estimated fair value of the Assumed Equity Awards was $55.0 million, of which $13.3  million was recognized as goodwill and the balance of $41.7 million is being recognized as stock-based compensation expense  over the remaining service period of the Assumed Equity Awards. The fair value of the Assumed Equity Awards for services  rendered through the Acquisition Date was recognized as a component of the merger consideration, with the remaining fair  value related to the post-combination services being recorded as stock-based compensation over the remaining vesting period. In addition, the plan administrator has the ability to grant “dividend equivalent” rights in connection with awards of  restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units and deferred stock units before they are fully vested. The plan  administrator, at its discretion, may grant a right to receive dividends on the aforementioned awards which may be settled in  cash or our stock at the discretion of the plan administrator subject to meeting the vesting requirement of the underlying awards. As of the Orbotech Acquisition Date, we assumed outstanding equity incentive awards under the following Orbotech  equity incentive plans: (i) Equity Remuneration Plan for Key Employees of Orbotech and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries (as  Amended and Restated in 2005), (ii) 2010 Equity-Based Incentive Plan, and (iii) 2015 Equity-Based Incentive Plan (each, an  “Assumed Equity Plan” and collectively the “Assumed Equity Plans”). The awards under the Assumed Equity Plans,  previously issued in the form of stock options and restricted share units (“RSUs”), were generally settled as follows:  a) Each award of Orbotech’s stock options and RSUs that was outstanding and vested immediately prior to the Acquisition  Date (collectively the “Vested Equity Awards”) was canceled and terminated and converted into the right to receive the  purchase consideration in respect of such Vested Equity Awards as of the Acquisition Date, and in the case of stock  options, less the exercise price.  b) Each award of Orbotech’s stock options and RSUs that was outstanding and unvested immediately prior to the  Acquisition Date was assumed by us (each, an “Assumed Option” and “Assumed RSU”, and collectively the “Assumed  Equity Awards”) and converted to stock options and RSUs exercisable for the number of shares of our common stock  equal to the product of (i) the number of Orbotech shares underlying such Assumed Equity Awards as of immediately  prior to the Acquisition Date multiplied by (ii) the exchange ratio defined in the Acquisition Agreement. The Assumed  Equity Awards generally retain all of the rights, terms and conditions of the respective plans under which they were  originally granted, including the same service-based vesting schedule, applicable thereto. Any 2004 Plan awards of restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units or deferred stock units are counted  against the total number of shares issuable under the 2004 Plan share reserve as 2.0 shares for every one share subject thereto. Facilities rent expense under the previous lease accounting guidance of ASC 840 was $13.5 million and $10.4 million for  the fiscal years ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.    NOTE 10 — EQUITY, LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND NON-CONTROLLING  INTEREST As of June 30, 2020, we were able to issue new equity incentive awards, such as restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and  stock options, to our employees, consultants and members of our Board of Directors under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the  “2004 Plan”) with 10.8 million shares available for issuance. As of June 30, 2020, we did not have material leases that had not yet commenced. __________________    (1)  The number of RSUs reflects the application of the award multiplier of 2.0x as described above.  (2)  Includes RSUs granted to senior management with performance-based vesting criteria (in addition to service-based  vesting criteria for any of such RSUs that are deemed to have been earned) (“performance-based RSUs”). As of June 30,  2020, it had not yet been determined the extent to which (if at all) the performance-based vesting criteria had been  satisfied. Therefore, this line item includes all such performance-based RSUs granted during the fiscal year, reported at  the maximum possible number of shares that may ultimately be issuable if all applicable performance-based criteria are  achieved at their maximum levels and all applicable service-based criteria are fully satisfied (0.4 million shares,  0.7 million shares and  0.3 million shares for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, reflects  the application of the 2.0x multiplier described above).   (3)  Includes RSUs granted to executive management during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 with both a market  condition and a service condition (“market-based RSUs”). Under the award agreements, the vesting of the market-based  RSUs is contingent on achieving total stockholder return (including stock price appreciation and cash dividends)  objectives on a per share basis of equal to or greater than 150%, 175% and 200% multiplied by the measurement price  of $116.39 during the five-year period ending March 20, 2024. The awards are split into three tranches and, to the extent  that total stockholder return targets have been met, one-third of the maximum number of shares available under these  awards will vest on each of the third, fourth, and fifth anniversaries of the grant date. This line item includes all such  market-based RSUs granted during the third quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 reported at the maximum  possible number of shares that may ultimately be issuable if all applicable market-based criteria are met at their  maximum levels and all applicable service-based criteria are fully satisfied (0.8 million shares for the year  ended June 30, 2019 reflects the application of the multiplier described above).  (4)  Represents the portion of RSUs granted with performance-based vesting criteria and reported at the actual number of  shares issued upon achievement of the performance vesting criteria during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019,  and 2018.  (5)  No additional stock options, RSUs or other awards will be granted under the Assumed Equity Plans. A total of 14,558 and 518,971 shares of our common stock underlie the Assumed Options and RSUs and had an estimated  weighted average fair value at the Acquisition Date of $53.3 and $104.5 per share, respectively. During the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2020, there were 14,558 Assumed Options exercised with a weighted-average exercise price of $54.00. As of June 30,  2020, there were 226,587 shares of our common stock underlying the outstanding Assumed RSUs under the Assumed Equity  Plans. __________________   (1)  Share numbers reflect actual shares subject to awarded RSUs. Under the terms of the 2004 Plan, the number of shares  subject to each award reflected in this number is multiplied by 2.0x to calculate the impact of the award on the share  reserve under the 2004 Plan.  (2)  Includes performance-based RSUs. As of June 30, 2020, it had not yet been determined the extent to which (if at all) the  performance-based criteria had been satisfied. Therefore, this line item includes all such RSUs, reported at the maximum  possible number of shares (i.e., 0.2 million shares for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020) that may ultimately be  issuable if all applicable performance-based criteria are achieved at their maximum.  (3)  Represents the portion of RSUs granted with performance-based vesting criteria and reported at the actual number of  shares issued upon achievement of the performance vesting criteria during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s  requisite service period. For RSUs granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price  of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those  RSUs. The fair value for RSUs granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common  stock on the grant date. The fair value for market-based RSUs is estimated on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation  model with the following assumptions: expected volatilities ranging from 27.8% to 28.1%, based on a combination of implied  volatility from traded options on our common stock and the historical volatility of our common stock; dividend yield ranging  from 2.4% to 2.5%, based on our current expectations about our anticipated dividend policy; risk-free interest rate ranging from  2.3% to 2.4%, based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with terms equal to the contractual  terms of each tranche; and an expected term which takes into consideration the vesting term and the contractual term of the  market-based award. The awards are amortized over service periods of three, four, and five years, which is the longer of the  explicit service period or the period in which the market target is expected to be met. The fair value for purchase rights under  our Employee Stock Purchase Plan is determined using a Black-Scholes model. __________________   (1)  Includes $10.9 million of stock-based compensation expense acceleration for certain equity awards for Orbotech  employees. Outstanding restricted stock units as of June 30, 2019(2)  2,902    $  91.84    Granted(2)  587    $  146.94    Granted adjustments(3)  (52)   $  111.41    Vested and released  (738)   $  87.30    Withheld for taxes  (313)   $  87.30    Forfeited  (133)   $  101.10    Outstanding restricted stock units as of June 30, 2020(2)  2,253    $  107.33    Costs of revenues  $  14,680    $  10,384   $  8,062   Research and development  23,530    16,225     11,249   Selling, general and administrative  73,171    67,585     43,473 The RSUs granted by us generally vest (a) with respect to awards with only service-based vesting criteria, over periods  ranging from two to four years and (b) with respect to awards with both performance-based and service-based vesting criteria,  in two equal installments on the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date, and (c) with respect to awards with both  market-based and service-based vesting criteria in three equal installments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the  grant date, in each case subject to the recipient remaining employed by us as of the applicable vesting date. The RSUs granted  to the independent members of the Board of Directors vest annually. Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides that eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible  earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of our common stock. The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal  Revenue Code. The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on  the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately  preceding trading day).  The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase  price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser  of (i) the fair market value of our common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the  fair market value of our common stock on the purchase date. We estimate the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP  using a Black-Scholes model. We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI Plan”) program for many of our employees as part of our  employee compensation program. Executives and non-employee members of the Board of Directors are not participating in this  program. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, we approved Cash LTI awards of $94 million and $85.2  million, respectively. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan will vest in three or four equal  installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the  grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain  employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we  recognized $64.0 million, $55.5 million and $52.4 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan. As  of June 30, 2020, the unrecognized compensation balance (excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures) related to the Cash  LTI Plan was $191.0 million. As of June 30, 2020, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to RSUs was $152.4 million,  excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and  an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.5 years. The intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs as of June 30, 2020  was $438.1 million. (In thousands, except for weighted-average grant date fair value)  Weighted-average grant date fair value per unit  $  146.94    $  99.53   $  95.95 Weighted-average fair value per unit assumed upon Orbotech  Acquisition  $  —    $  104.49   $  — On November 19, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding  common stock, which was paid on December 9, 2014 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 1,  2014. The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under  which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing  disclosed in Note 8 “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014. As of the declaration date,  the total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us was approximately $2.76 billion, substantially all of which was paid  out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was  accrued for the unvested RSUs and to be paid when such underlying unvested RSUs vest. Payments of the special cash  dividend with respect to vested restricted stock units during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 were $2.9 million, and by the  end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019 all of the special cash dividends accrued with respect to outstanding RSUs had vested  and been paid in full. Other than the special cash dividend declared during the three months ended December 31, 2014, we  historically have not declared any special cash dividends. On May 7, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.85 per share on the outstanding  shares of our common stock, which was paid on June 2, 2020 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on May  18, 2020. The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the fiscal years ended  June 30, 2020 and 2019 was $522.4 million and $469.4 million, respectively. The amount of accrued dividends equivalents  payable related to unvested RSUs with dividend equivalent rights was $8.3 million and $7.3 million as of June 30, 2020 and  2019, respectively. These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying RSUs. Refer to Note 21 “Subsequent Events” to  the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the declaration of our quarterly cash dividend  announced subsequent to June 30, 2020. The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision. The  provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which we estimate  will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year. As of June 30, 2020, a total of 2.1 million  shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP. Weighted-average fair value per share based on Black-Scholes model  $  36.61    $  21.72   $  21.95   Expected stock price volatility  34.3  %   33.2  %   28.7  %  Risk-free interest rate  2.1  %   2.1  %   1.1  %  Dividend yield  2.2  %   3.1  %   2.5  %  Expected life (in years)  0.50   0.50   0.50 We have consolidated the results of Orbotech LT Solar, LLC (“OLTS”) and Orbograph Ltd. (“Orbograph”), in which we  own approximately 84% and 94% of the outstanding equity interest, respectively. OLTS is engaged in the research,  development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon  photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels through plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (“PECVD”). Orbograph is  engaged in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other payment processing  institutions and healthcare providers. Additionally, we have consolidated the results of PixCell, an Israeli company developing diagnostic equipment for point- of-care hematology applications of which we own approximately 52% of the outstanding equity interest and are entitled to  appoint the majority of this company’s directors.     NOTE 11 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM Our Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits us to repurchase up to $3.00 billion of our common  stock, reflecting an increase of $1.00 billion authorized by our Board of Directors during fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. For  additional details, refer to Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” The intent of  this program is to offset the dilution from our equity incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, the issuance of shares in  the Orbotech Acquisition, as well as to return excess cash to our stockholders. Subject to market conditions, applicable legal  requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws,  including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1.  This stock repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended at any time. As of June 30, 2020, an aggregate of  approximately $1.04 billion  was available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted- average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is calculated by using the  weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional  shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding dilutive  restricted stock units had been issued. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units is reflected in diluted net income  per share by application of the treasury stock method. Basic net income per share attributable to KLA  $  7.76   $  7.53   $  5.13  Diluted net income per share attributable to KLA  $  7.70    $  7.49    $  5.10 The total expenses under the profit sharing and 401(k) programs aggregated $24.6 million, $18.6 million, and $16.0  million in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We have no defined benefit plans in the United  States. In addition to the profit sharing plan and the United States 401(k), several of our foreign subsidiaries have retirement  plans for their full-time employees, several of which are defined benefit plans. Consistent with the requirements of local law,  our deposits funds for certain of these plans are held with insurance companies, with third-party trustees or in government- managed accounts. The assumptions used in calculating the obligation for the foreign plans depend on the local economic  environment. We apply authoritative guidance that requires an employer to recognize the funded status of each of its defined pension  and post-retirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on its balance sheets. Additionally, the authoritative guidance  requires an employer to measure the funded status of each of its plans as of the date of its year-end statement of financial  position. The benefit obligations and related assets under our plans have been measured as of June 30, 2020 and 2019. We have a profit sharing program for eligible employees, which distributes a percentage of our pre-tax profits on a  quarterly basis. In addition, we have an employee savings plan that qualifies as a deferred salary arrangement under  Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Since April 1, 2011, the employer match amount was 50% of the first $8,000 of  an eligible employee’s contribution (i.e., a maximum of $4,000) during each fiscal year until January 1, 2019, when the  employer match was changed to the greater of 50% of the first $8,000 of an eligible employee's contributions or 50% of the  first 5% of eligible compensation contributed plus 25% of the next 5% of compensation contributed. The assumptions for expected rate of return on assets were developed by considering the historical returns and  expectations of future returns relevant to the country in which each plan is in effect and the investments applicable to the  corresponding plan. The discount rate for each plan was derived by reference to appropriate benchmark yields on high quality  corporate bonds, allowing for the approximate duration of both plan obligations and the relevant benchmark index. Losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to our foreign defined benefit pension plans expected  to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021 are as follows:   __________________  (1)  Represents the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation. Discount rate  0.6%-1.7%   0.3%-1.7%   0.5%-2.3%  Expected rate of return on assets  0.8%-2.9%   1.0%-2.9%   1.3%-2.9%  Rate of compensation increases  1.8%-4.5%   1.8%-4.5%   3.0%-4.5% __________________  (1)  Service cost is reported in cost of revenues, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses.  All other components of net periodic pension cost are reported in other expense (income), net in the Consolidated  Statements of Operations. The foreign plans’ investments are managed by third-party trustees consistent with the regulations or market practice of  the country where the assets are invested. We are not actively involved in the investment strategy, nor do we have control over  the target allocation of these investments. These investments made up 100% of total foreign plan assets in the fiscal years ended  June 30, 2020 and 2019. The expected aggregate employer contribution for the foreign plans during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021 is $4.3  million.  The total benefits to be paid from the foreign pension plans are not expected to exceed $5.1 million in any year through  the fiscal year ending June 30, 2030.  Foreign plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following investment categories as of  June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively: Fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction  between market participants at the measurement date. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value of plan assets are  described in Note 3, “Fair Value Measurements.” We manage a variety of risks, including market, credit and liquidity risks, across our plan assets through our investment  managers. We define a concentration of risk as an undiversified exposure to one of the above-mentioned risks that increases the  exposure of the loss of plan assets unnecessarily. We monitor exposure to such risks in the foreign plans by monitoring the  magnitude of the risk in each plan and diversifying our exposure to such risks across a variety of instruments, markets and  counterparties. As of June 30, 2020, we did not have concentrations of plan asset investment risk in any single entity, manager,  counterparty, sector, industry or country. The net deferred tax asset valuation allowance was $181.8 million and $166.6 million as of June 30, 2020 and June 30,  2019, respectively. The change was primarily due to an increase in the valuation allowance related to state credit carry-forwards  generated in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, partially offset by a decrease in the valuation allowance related to foreign  NOL carry-forwards. The valuation allowance is based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that certain deferred tax  assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Of the valuation allowance as of June 30, 2020, $181.8 million relates to  federal and state credit carry-forwards. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates to state NOL carry-forwards. As of June 30, 2020, we intend to indefinitely reinvest $3.03 billion of cumulative undistributed earnings held by certain  non-U.S. subsidiaries. If these undistributed earnings were repatriated to the U.S., the potential deferred tax liability associated  with the undistributed earnings would be approximately $111.9 million. The provision for income taxes and the significant components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the year  ended June 30, 2020 includes the tax impact of the acquisition of Orbotech. As of June 30, 2020, we, excluding Orbotech, had U.S. federal, state and foreign net operating loss (“NOL”) carry- forwards of approximately $16.3 million, $24.7 million and $19.6 million, respectively. Orbotech had U.S. federal, state, and  foreign NOLs of approximately $51.0 million, $26.6 million and $76.2 million, respectively. Orbotech also had capital loss  carry-forwards of approximately $44.6 million. The U.S. federal NOL carry-forwards will expire at various dates beginning in  2023 through 2033. The utilization of NOLs created by acquired companies is subject to annual limitations under Section 382  of the Internal Revenue Code. However, it is not expected that such annual limitation will significantly impair the realization of  these NOLs. The state NOLs began to expire in 2020. Foreign NOLs and capital loss carry-forwards will be carried forward  indefinitely. State credits of $245.3 million for us including Orbotech, will also be carried forward indefinitely. We benefit from tax holidays in Israel and Singapore where we manufacture certain of our products. These tax holidays  are on approved investments and are scheduled to expire at varying times in the next one to nine years. We are in compliance  with all the terms and conditions of the tax holidays as of June 30, 2020. The net impact of these tax holidays was to decrease  our tax expense by approximately $33.3 million, $31.6 million and $39.7 million in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019  and 2018, respectively. The benefits of the tax holidays on diluted net income per share were $0.21, $0.20 and $0.25 for the  fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate was as follows:   The significant components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows: The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would impact the effective tax rate was $161.5 million, $136.1 million and  $57.9 million as of June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The amount of interest and penalties recognized during the  years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was expense of $4.6 million, expense of $2.9 million, and income of $0.1 million as  a result of a release of unrecognized tax benefits, respectively. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to  unrecognized tax benefits within other expense (income), net. The amount of interest and penalties accrued as of June 30, 2020  and 2019 was approximately $37.6 million and $21.8 million, respectively.  We are subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world. We are subject to federal income tax examinations  for all years beginning from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 and are under United States federal income tax examination for  the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. We are subject to state income tax examinations for all years beginning from the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2016. We are also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore and Israel,  for all years beginning from the calendar year ended December 31, 2012. We are under audit in Germany related to Orbotech  for the years ended December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2015.  We are also under audit in Israel related to KLA for the fiscal  years ended June 30, 2017 to June 30, 2019. In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012  through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all net  operating losses ("NOLs") available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 229.0 million (equivalent to approximately  $66.0 million which amount includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index as of date of  issuance of the Tax Decrees). We believe our recorded unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the resolution of the  Assessment. Year ended June 30,     2020    2019    2018  Federal statutory rate  21.0  %   21.0  %   28.1  %  State income taxes, net of federal benefit  0.2  %   0.5  %   0.5  %  Effect of foreign operations taxed at various rates  (12.1) %   (10.5) %   (11.0) % Global intangible low-taxed income  3.0  %   3.5  %   —  %  Foreign derived intangible income  (5.0) %   (4.0) %   —  %  Research and development tax credit  (1.8) %   (1.8) %   (1.4) %  Net change in tax reserves  1.5  %   1.4  %   (0.4) %  Domestic manufacturing benefit  —  %   —  %   (1.1) %  Non-deductible impairment of goodwill  4.1  %   —  %   —  %  Effect of stock-based compensation  (0.3) %   0.4  %   (0.1) %  Restructuring  (2.6) %   —  %   —  %  Other  (0.3) %   0.4  %   —  %  Effective income tax rate  7.7  %   9.4  %   44.9  % 102  —  %   (1.5) %   30.3  % Factoring. We have agreements (referred to as “factoring agreements”) with financial institutions to sell certain of our  trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse. We do not believe we are at risk for any material  losses as a result of these agreements. In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse,  received from customers in payment for goods and services. We are named from time to time as a party to lawsuits and other types of legal proceedings and claims in the normal  course of our business. Actions filed against us include commercial, intellectual property, customer, and labor and employment  related claims, including complaints of alleged wrongful termination and potential class action lawsuits regarding  alleged violations of federal and state wage and hour and other laws. In general, legal proceedings and claims, regardless of  their merit, and associated internal investigations (especially those relating to intellectual property or confidential information  disputes) are often expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct and may divert management’s attention and other company  resources. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and the costs incurred in litigation can be  substantial, regardless of outcome. We believe the amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements are adequate in  light of the probable and estimated liabilities. However, because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, the ultimate  outcomes are not predictable, and there can be no assurances that the actual amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from  the matters described above will not exceed the amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements or will not have a  material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”). The ITA completed  the second stage of the audit, in which the claims Orbotech raised in the Objection were examined by different personnel at the  ITA. In addition, the ITA examined additional items during this second stage of the audit. As Orbotech and the ITA did not  reach an agreement during the second stage, the ITA issued Tax Decrees to Orbotech on August 28, 2019 (“Tax Decrees”) for  an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all NOLs available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 257 million  (equivalent to approximately $74 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price  index as of the date of the issuance of the Tax Decrees). These Tax Decrees replaced the Assessment. We believe that our  recorded unrecognized tax benefits are sufficient to cover the resolution of these Tax Decrees. Orbotech filed a notice of appeal with respect to the above Tax Decrees with the District Court of Tel Aviv on September  26, 2019. On February 27, 2020 the ITA filed its arguments in support of the Tax Decrees. Orbotech filed the grounds of appeal  with respect to the above Tax Decrees on July 30, 2020. The ITA and Orbotech are continuing discussions in an effort to  resolve this matter in a mutually agreeable manner. In connection with the above, there is an ongoing criminal investigation in Israel against Orbotech, which became our  wholly owned subsidiary as of the acquisition date, certain of its employees and its tax consultant. On April 11, 2018, Orbotech  received a “suspect notification letter” (dated March 28, 2018) from the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Fiscal and  Financial). In the letter, it was noted that the investigation file was transferred from the Assessment Investigation Officer to the  District Attorney’s Office. The letter further states that the District Attorney’s Office has not yet made a decision regarding  submission of an indictment against Orbotech; and that if after studying the case, a decision is made to consider prosecuting  Orbotech, Orbotech will receive an additional letter, and within 30 days, Orbotech may present its arguments to the District  Attorney’s Office as to why it should not be indicted. On October 27, 2019, we received a request for additional information  from the District Attorney's Office. We will continue to monitor the progress of the District Attorney’s Office investigation;  however, we cannot anticipate when the review of the case will be completed and what will be the results thereof. We intend to  cooperate with the District Attorney’s Office to enable them to conclude their investigation. It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months. We believe that we may recognize  up to $10.5 million of our existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of  limitations and the resolution of examinations with various tax authorities. We are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect  to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in connection with contracts and license agreements or the sale of assets,  under which we customarily agree to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from, or provides customers with other  remedies to protect against, bodily injury or damage to personal property caused by our products, non-compliance with our  product performance specifications, infringement by our products of third-party intellectual property rights and a breach of  warranties, representations and covenants related to matters such as title to assets sold, validity of certain intellectual property  rights, non-infringement of third-party rights, and certain income tax-related matters. In each of these circumstances, payment  by us is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with us pursuant to the procedures specified in  the particular contract. This usually allows us to challenge the other party’s claims or, in case of breach of intellectual property  representations or covenants, to control the defense or settlement of any third-party claims brought against the other party.  Further, our obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of amounts, activity (typically at our option to replace  or correct the products or terminate the agreement with a refund to the other party), and duration. In some instances, we may  have recourse against third parties and/or insurance covering certain payments made by us. In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on  pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments. Furthermore, we may give these  customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments. If a  customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit  or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or  inspection. To date, we have made no significant accruals in our Consolidated Financial Statements for this contingency. While  we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot  make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future. It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to  the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Indemnification Obligations. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former  directors, officers and employees with respect to certain litigation matters and investigations that arise in connection with their  service to us. These obligations arise under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, its bylaws, applicable contracts, and  Delaware and California law. The obligation to indemnify generally means that we are required to pay or reimburse the  individuals’ reasonable legal expenses and possibly damages and other liabilities incurred in connection with these matters. For  example, we have paid or reimbursed legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option  practices and the related litigation and government inquiries by several of our current and former directors, officers and  employees. Although the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under the  indemnification obligations generally described in this paragraph is theoretically unlimited, we believe the fair value of this  liability, to the extent estimable, is appropriately considered within the reserve we have established for currently pending legal  proceedings. Guarantees and Contingencies. We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for  up to $81.7 million, of which $68.7 million had been issued as of June 30, 2020, primarily to fund guarantees to customs  authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel and Asia. Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan. As of June 30, 2020, we have committed $197.1 million for future payment  obligations under our Cash LTI Plan. The calculation of compensation expense related to the Cash LTI Plan includes estimated  forfeiture rate assumptions. Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan vest in three or four equal  installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the  grant date over a three or four-year period. In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must be  employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date. Purchase Commitments. We maintain commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as goods, services,  and other assets in the ordinary course of business. Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a  forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different  suppliers. Our estimate of our significant purchase commitments for material, services, supplies and asset purchases is  approximately $896.9 million as of June 30, 2020, which are primarily due within the next 12 months. Actual expenditures will  vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided. In addition, the amounts paid under  these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled. Certain agreements provide for  potential cancellation penalties. Factoring and LC fees for the sale of certain trade receivables were recorded in other expense (income), net and were not  material for the periods presented. In January 2020, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“2020 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark  interest rate on a portion of the $750.0 million of 3.300% Senior Notes due in 2050 (the “2020 Senior Notes”). The 2020 Rate  Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $350.0 million in aggregate which matured in the same quarter.  The 2020 Rate  Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of the pricing of the 2020 Senior Notes and we recorded the fair value of  $21.5 million as a loss within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of March 31, 2020, which will be  amortized over the life of the debt.  We recognized $0.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, for the amortization of the  loss recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which increased the interest expense. As of June 30, 2020,  the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the Rate Lock Agreements was $21.3 million. For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported  in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Prior  to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness  for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in  earnings over the life of the derivative contract. For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance,  the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow  hedges. The change in fair value of the derivative is recorded in OCI until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The  assessment of effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting  the new accounting guidance. The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness is recognized in Historically, payments made by us under these agreements have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition,  results of operations or cash flows.    NOTE 17 — DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including  foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, (collectively “derivatives”) as either assets or liabilities  at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In accordance with the accounting guidance, we designate foreign currency  exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated  sales, purchase and spending transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the corresponding debt financing, respectively. In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a  portion of the 2014 Senior Notes. The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which  matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015. The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of  pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within  accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of December 31, 2014. We recognized $0.8 million for each of the  fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other  comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense. As of June 30, 2020, the unamortized portion of the  fair value of the forward contracts for the rate lock agreements was $3.3 million. Our foreign subsidiaries operate and sell our products in various global markets. As a result, we are exposed to risks  relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option  contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign  currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the pound sterling and the Israeli  new shekel. We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to  minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. These currency forward exchange contracts and options,  designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months. Cash flow hedges are evaluated for  effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. If a financial counterparty to any of our hedging  arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may  experience material losses. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock  Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate prior to expected debt issuances. The objective of the 2018 Rate Lock  Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate  leading up to the closing of the intended financing, on the notional amount being hedged. The 2018 Rate Lock Agreement had a  notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate, which matured and terminated in the third quarter of fiscal year ended June 30,  2019 and we recorded the fair value of $13.6 million as a loss within OCI. We recognized $1.2 million and $0.3 million for the  fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, for the amortization of the loss recognized in AOCI, which amounts  increased our interest expense.  As of June 30, 2020, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the 2018 Rate Lock  Agreements was $12.1 million. earnings over the life of the derivative contract. Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components  and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI. For derivatives that are not designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income),  net. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The gains  and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being  hedged. The U.S. dollar equivalent of all outstanding notional amounts of foreign currency hedge contracts, with maximum  remaining maturities of approximately seven months as of June 30, 2020 and 2019, were as follows: We present derivatives at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We have entered into arrangements with  each of our counterparties, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty  under certain conditions. The information related to the offsetting arrangements for the periods indicated was as follows (in  thousands): During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we purchased from, or sold to, several entities, where one or  more of our executive officers or members of our Board of Directors, or their immediate family members were, during the  periods presented, an executive officer or a board member of a subsidiary, including Anaplan, Inc., Ansys, Inc., Citrix Systems,  Inc., HP Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Keysight Technologies, Inc., Logmein Inc., NetApp, Inc. and Proofpoint,  Inc. Our receivable balance was $2.4 million and payable balance was immaterial from these parties as of June 30,2020. Our  receivable and payable balances from these parties were immaterial as of June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.     NOTE 19 — SEGMENT REPORTING AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION  ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating  segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the  chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our CODM is  our Chief Executive Officer. We have four reportable segments: Semiconductor Process Control; Specialty Semiconductor Process; PCB, Display and  Component Inspection; and Other. The reportable segments are determined based on several factors including, but not limited  to, customer base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. The Semiconductor Process Control (“SPC”) segment offers comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data  analytics products, and related service, which helps integrated circuit manufacturers achieve target yield throughout the entire  semiconductor fabrication process-from research and development (“R&D”) to final volume production. Our differentiated  products and services are designed to provide comprehensive solutions that help our customers accelerate development and  production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields and improve their overall profitability. This  reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments, Wafer Inspection and Patterning and GSS. ________________   (1)  During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we acquired a product line from Keysight Technologies,  Inc. (“Keysight”) and entered into a transition services agreement pursuant to which Keysight provides certain  manufacturing services to us. For additional details refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations”. We recorded the  manufacturing services fees under the transition services agreement with Keysight within cost of revenues, which was  immaterial for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 and 2019. Semiconductor Process Control. .We engage in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various  materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels. This reportable segment is comprised of one  operating segment.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement to sell certain core  assets of our non-strategic solar energy business, which is included in our Other reportable segment, for a total consideration of  $1.7 million. The PCB, Display and Component Inspection segment enable electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and  measure printed circuit boards (“PCBs”), flat panel displays (“FPDs”) and ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired  electronic circuitry on the relevant substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces.  This segment also engages in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other  payment processing institutions and healthcare providers. This reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments,  PCB and Display and Component Inspection.. The CODM assesses the performance of each operating segment and allocates resources to those segments based on total  revenue and segment gross margin and does not evaluate the segments using discrete asset information. Segment gross margin  excludes corporate allocation and effects of foreign exchange rates, amortization of intangible assets, amortization of inventory  fair value adjustments, and transaction costs associated with our acquisitions related to costs of revenues. microelectromechanical systems (“MEMS”), radio frequency (“RF”) communication chips, and power semiconductors for  automotive and industrial applications. This reportable segment is comprised of one operating segment. Our significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and  Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe. For geographical  revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located. Long-lived assets consist  of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located. __________________  (1)  Acquisition-related charges primarily include amortization of intangible assets, amortization of inventory fair value  adjustments, and other acquisition-related costs classified or presented as part of costs of revenues. Wafer Inspection, and Patterning products are offered in Semiconductor Process Control segment. Services are offered in  multiple segments. Other includes primarily refurbished systems, remanufactured legacy systems, and enhancements and  upgrades for previous-generation products that are part of Semiconductor Process Control segment. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, two customers accounted for approximately 20%  and 14% of total revenues. In the  fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, one customer accounted for approximately 15% of total revenues. In the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2018, one customer accounted for approximately 21% of total revenues. In September 2019, management approved a plan to streamline our organization and business processes that included the  reduction of workforce, which is expected to be completed in the second half of our fiscal year 2021, primarily in our PCB,  Display and Component Inspection segment. Restructuring charges were $7.7 million for fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. As of  June 30, 2020, the accrual for restructuring charges was $5.7 million. On August 3, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend  level to $0.90 per share.  On August 6, 2020, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend  of $0.90 per share to be paid on September 1, 2020 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 17, 2020.    NOTE 22 — QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) The following is a summary of our quarterly consolidated results of operations (unaudited) for the fiscal years ended  June 30, 2020 and 2019. We expect to incur additional restructuring charges, including additional severance costs and other related costs in future  periods in connection with the completion of our workforce reduction.     NOTE 21 — SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (In thousands, except per share data)  Total revenues  $  1,413,414    $  1,509,453    $  1,423,964    $  1,459,593   Gross margin  $  809,173    $  875,835    $  833,806    $  838,049   Net income attributable to KLA  $  346,525    $  380,555    $  78,452    $  411,253   Net income attributable to KLA per share:             Basic(2)  $  2.18    $  2.42    $  0.50    $  2.65   Diluted(2)  $  2.16    $  2.40    $  0.50    $  2.63 (In thousands, except per share data)  Total revenues(1)  $  1,093,260    $  1,119,898    $  1,097,311    $  1,258,435   Gross margin  $  711,873    $  711,638    $  610,366    $  665,650   Net income (loss) attributable to KLA(3)  $  395,944    $  369,100    $  192,728    $  217,845   Net income (loss) attributable to KLA per share:            Basic(2)  $  2.55    $  2.43    $  1.23    $  1.36   Diluted(2)  $  2.54    $  2.42    $  1.23    $  1.35   United States  $  329,558   $  253,255   Israel  59,162     66,082   Europe  58,065     62,027   Singapore  54,946     49,523   Rest of Asia  18,093     17,912 (1)  On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech for total consideration of approximately $3.26 billion.  The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our Consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2019 from the Acquisition Date. For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations”.  (2)  Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share were computed independently for each of the quarters presented based on  the weighted-average basic and fully diluted shares outstanding for each quarter. Therefore, the sum of quarterly basic  and diluted net income (loss) per share information may not equal annual basic and diluted net income (loss) per share. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement  of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated  financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by  management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal  control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the  risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based  on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the  circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the  audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement,  whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material  respects. The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal  control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included  in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to  express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial  reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight  Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S.  federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position of the Company as of June 30, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three  years in the period ended June 30, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of  America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial  reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the  COSO. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for  leases in 2020 and the manner in which it accounts for revenue from contracts with customers in 2019. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of KLA Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of  June 30, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and  cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2020, including the related notes and financial statement  schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”).  We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2020, based on criteria established  in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission (COSO). Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall  opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to  management’s quantitative goodwill impairment assessment, including controls over the determination of the fair value of the  reporting units and controls over development of the related assumptions. These procedures also included, among others, (i)  testing management’s process for determining the fair value of the reporting units, (ii) evaluating the appropriateness of the  income and market approaches, (iii) testing the completeness, accuracy, and relevance of underlying data used in the estimate,  and (iv) evaluating the significant assumptions related to the long-term growth rates and the discount rates. Evaluating  management’s assumptions related to the long-term growth rates involved evaluating whether the assumptions used by  management were reasonable considering (i) the current and past performance of the reporting units, (ii) the consistency with  external market and industry data, and (iii) whether these assumptions were consistent with evidence obtained in other areas of  the audit. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in the evaluation of the long-term growth rates  and discount rates assumptions. The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the quantitative goodwill impairment  assessment for the SSP and PCB and Display reporting units is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by  management when determining the fair value of the reporting units, which in turn led to significant auditor judgment,  subjectivity and effort in performing procedures and evaluating management’s significant assumptions related to the long-term  growth rates and discount rates. In addition, the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and  knowledge to assist in evaluating the audit evidence obtained. As described in Notes 1 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’s consolidated goodwill balance was $2.0  billion as of June 30, 2020, and the goodwill associated with the Specialty Semiconductor Process (“SSP”) and PCB and  Display reporting units was $681.9 million and $907.2 million, respectively. Management recorded charges of $144.2 million  and $112.5 million for the impairment of goodwill related to the SSP and PCB and Display reporting units, respectively, during  the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Management tests goodwill for impairment annually during the third fiscal quarter as well as  whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. To determine the fair  value of the reporting units, management utilized the results derived from income and market valuation approaches and applied  a weighting of 75 percent and 25 percent, respectively. The income approach is estimated through a discounted cash flow  analysis. The estimated fair value of each reporting unit was computed by adding the present value of the estimated annual  discounted cash flows over a discrete projection period to the residual value of the business at the end of the projection period.  This valuation technique requires management to use significant estimates and assumptions, including long-term growth rates,  discount rates and other inputs. The market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by utilizing the market  comparable method which is based on revenue and earnings multiples from comparable companies. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the  reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally  accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures  that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and  dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and  expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the  company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or  disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,  projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate  because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial  statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to accounts or  disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or  complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated  financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate  opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1977. Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall  opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the  identification and recognition of the liability for uncertain tax positions, and controls addressing completeness of the uncertain  tax positions, as well as controls over measurement of the liability. These procedures also included, among others, (i) testing the  information used in the calculation of the liability for uncertain tax positions related to the ongoing ITA matter, including  evaluating international filing positions, the related final tax returns and communications between the Company and the tax  authorities; (ii) testing the calculation of the liability for uncertain tax positions by jurisdiction, including management’s  assessment of the technical merits of tax positions related to the ITA matter and estimates of the amount of tax benefit expected  to be sustained for the matter; and (iii) testing the completeness of management’s assessment of both the identification of  uncertain tax positions and possible outcomes of each uncertain tax position. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge  were used to assist in the evaluation of the completeness and measurement of the liability for uncertain tax positions related to  the ITA matter, including evaluating the reasonableness of management’s assessment of whether tax positions are more-likely- than-not of being sustained, the amount of potential benefit to be realized, and the application of relevant tax laws. As described in Notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has recorded liabilities for uncertain tax  positions arising from a tax assessment and subsequent Tax Decrees received from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”). The  calculation of the Company’s tax liabilities associated with the ongoing ITA matter involves dealing with the application of  complex tax regulations. Management recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first  step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more  likely than not that the position will be sustained in audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any.  The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate  settlement.  Management re-evaluates uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and this evaluation is based on factors  including, but not limited to changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and  new audit activity. The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the uncertain tax positions related to  the ongoing ITA matter is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management when evaluating uncertain tax  positions and the application of complex tax regulations, which in turn led to significant audit effort in performing procedures  to evaluate the timely identification and accurate measurement of uncertain tax positions. Also, the evaluation of audit evidence  available to support the liability for uncertain tax positions is complex as the nature of the evidence is often subjective, and the  audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in evaluating the audit evidence  obtained from these procedures. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as  defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our  management, including our CEO and CFO, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over  financial reporting based on criteria established in the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (2013) issued by  the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management  concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of June 30, 2020. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2020 has been audited by  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in  Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as  defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”))  (“Disclosure Controls”) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Report”) required by  Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b). The evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures was conducted under the  supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial  Officer (“CFO”). Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that as of June 30, 2020, the end of the period  covered by this Report, our Disclosure Controls were effective at a reasonable assurance level. Attached as exhibits to this Report are certifications of the CEO and CFO, which are required in accordance with Rule  13a-14 of the Exchange Act. This Controls and Procedures section includes the information concerning the controls evaluation  referred to in the certifications, and it should be read in conjunction with the certifications for a more complete understanding of  the topics presented. Disclosure Controls are controls and procedures designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed  in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act, such as this Report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported  within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure Controls are also designed to reasonably assure that  such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow  timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our Disclosure Controls include components of our internal control over  financial reporting, which consists of control processes designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our  financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in  the United States. To the extent that components of our internal control over financial reporting are included within our  Disclosure Controls, they are included in the scope of our annual controls evaluation. ITEM  9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None.     ITEM  9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Our management, including the CEO and CFO, does not expect that our Disclosure Controls or internal control over  financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide  only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system  must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.  Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all  control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the  realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake.  Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by  management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the  likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving our stated goals under all  potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the  degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system,  misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation  required by Rule 13a-15(d) and 15d-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended  June 30, 2020 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial  reporting. ITEM  9B.  OTHER INFORMATION None.     PART III    ITEM  10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For the information required by this Item, see “Information About the Directors and the Nominees,” “Information About  Executive Officers,” “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management—Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports  Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” “Our Corporate Governance Practices—Standards of Business Conduct;  Whistleblower Hotline and Website” and “Information About the Board of Directors and Its Committees—Audit Committee”  in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.    ITEM  11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION For the information required by this Item, see “Executive Compensation and Other Matters,” “Director Compensation”  and “Information About the Board of Directors and Its Committees—Compensation Committee—Risk Considerations in Our  Compensation Programs” in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.    ITEM  12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS For the information required by this Item, see “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and  “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.     ITEM  13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR  INDEPENDENCE For the information required by this Item, see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Information About  the Board of Directors and Its Committees —The Board of Directors” in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by  reference. For the information required by this Item, see “Proposal Two: Ratification of Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP as Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2021” in the Proxy Statement,  which is incorporated herein by reference.     PART IV    ITEM  15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ITEM  14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES All other schedules are omitted because they are either not applicable or the required information is shown in the  Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto. The information required by this Item is set forth in the Exhibit Index following Schedule II included in this Annual  Report. Financial Statement Schedule: Exhibits  (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  1. Financial Statements: Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused  this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. KLA Corporation            August 6, 2020    By:     /S/    RICHARD P. WALLACE          (Date)         Richard P. Wallace Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. /s/    ROBERT A. RANGO          Director    August 6, 2020  Robert A. Rango /s/    VIRENDRA A. KIRLOSKAR      Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting  Officer (principal accounting officer)     August 6, 2020  Virendra A. Kirloskar      /s/    RICHARD P. WALLACE          President, Chief Executive Officer and Director  (principal executive officer)     August 6, 2020  Richard P. Wallace /s/    EDWARD W. BARNHOLT      Chairman of the Board and Director     August 6, 2020  Edward W. Barnholt      /s/    ROBERT M. CALDERONI      Director     August 6, 2020  Robert M. Calderoni /s/    KIRAN M. PATEL             Director     August 6, 2020  Kiran M. Patel      /s/    KEVIN J. KENNEDY       Director     August 6, 2020  Kevin J. Kennedy      /s/    JENEANNE HANLEY     Director    August 6, 2020  Jeneanne Hanley /s/   VICTOR PENG         Director    August 6, 2020  Victor Peng      /s/     BREN D. HIGGINS       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer (principal financial officer)     August 6, 2020  Bren D. Higgins /s/    GARY B. MOORE    Director    August 6, 2020  Gary B. Moore 10.12    Amended and Restated 2010 Executive  Severance Plan    10-Q    No. 000-09992    10.45    October 22, 2015  10.13    Calendar Year 2020 Executive Incentive  Plan*+    10-Q    No. 000-09992    10.1    May 6, 2020  10.11    Amended and Restated Executive Severance  Plan*    8-K    No. 000-09992    10.1    October 20, 2016 10.10  10.3  10.2   Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units*    10-Q    No. 000-09992   10.18    May 4, 2006 10.9  10.4 10.1    2004 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended and  restated (as of November 7, 2018))*    S-8    No. 228283    10.1    November 8, 2018 4.3  4.1 3.1    Restated Certificate of Incorporation    10-K    No. 000-09992    3.1    August 16, 2019  3.2    Amended and Restated Bylaws of the  Company effective as of July 15, 2019    8-K    No. 000-09992    3.2    July 16, 2019 Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30,  2017 among KLA-Tencor Corporation, the  lenders from time to time and JPMorgan  Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent Form of Officer’s Certificate setting forth  the terms of the 4.100% Senior Notes due  2029 and 5.000% Senior Notes due 2049  (with form of Notes attached) Form of Officer’s Certificate setting forth  the terms of the 3.300% Senior Notes due  2050 (with form of Notes attached) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement  for U.S. Employees (with Dividend  Equivalents) (approved August 2014)* Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement  for Non-U.S. Employees (with Dividend  Equivalents) (approved August 2014)*    Executive Deferred Savings Plan (as  amended and restated effective July 31,  2019)*    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award  Notification (Service-Vesting) (approved  August 2012)*    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award  Notification (Service-Vesting; 25% Annual  Vesting) (approved August 2014)* Form    File No.    Exhibit  Number   Filing Date No. 000-09992  No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992 No. 000-09992  No. 000-09992  Incorporated by Reference 10.50 10.51 10.46 10.48  10.49 10.1  4.2  4.1 __________________  *  Denotes a management contract, plan or arrangement. ITEM 16.   FORM 10-K SUMMARY  None.    +  Certain portions of this document that constitute confidential information have been redacted in accordance with  Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(10). XBRL Instance Document - the instance  document does not appear in the Interactive  Data File because its XBRL tags are  embedded within the Inline XBRL  document.              101.SCH    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema  Document              101.CAL    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation  Linkbase Document              101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition  Linkbase Document              101.LAB    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase  Document              101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation  Linkbase Document Certification of Chief Executive Officer and  Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18  U.S.C. Section 1350              101.INS 10.14 10.15 21.1   List of Subsidiaries              23.1    Consent of Independent Registered Public  Accounting Firm              31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer  under Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934              31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer  under Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934              32 Incremental Facility, Extension and  Amendment Agreement, dated as of  November 2, 2018 by and among the  registrant, the subsidiary guarantors party  thereto, the lenders party thereto and  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as  administrative agent Form    File No.    Exhibit  Number   Filing Date No. 000-09992 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.  Except for historical statements, the letter to our  stockholders in this report contains certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of  the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking  statements, including statements regarding global demand trends, 5G and mobile semiconductor growth, AI and  data room semiconductor growth, IoT and virtual connectivity semiconductor growth, R&D investments, service  revenue and service contract penetration, WFE industry growth rate, M&A activity, and the achievement of  synergy targets, are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from  those projected in the forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned to consult KLA Corporation’s filings  with the Securities and Exchange Commission for further information regarding, and risks related to, our business.   These documents are available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We expressly assume no obligation to update  the forward-looking statements in the letter to our stockholders contained in this report. BOARD OF DIRECTORS  (as of September 23, 2020)    Edward Barnholt  Chairman of the Board  KLA Corporation    Robert Calderoni  Chairman  Citrix Systems, Inc.    Jeneanne Hanley  Former SVP and President  E-Systems Division  Lear Corporation    Emiko Higashi  Managing Director and Founder  Tohmon Capital Partners, LLC    Kevin Kennedy  Chief Executive Officer  Quanergy Systems, Inc.    Gary Moore  Chief Executive Officer  ServiceSource International, Inc.    Marie Myers  Chief Transformation Officer  HP Inc.    Kiran Patel  Former EVP and GM  Small Business Group   Intuit, Inc. Victor Peng  President and CEO  Xilinx, Inc.    Robert Rango  President and CEO  Enevate Corporation    Richard Wallace  President and CEO  KLA Corporation INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC  ACCOUNTING FIRM    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  San Jose, California    TRANSFER AGENT/REGISTRAR    Computershare Investor Services  P.O. Box 505000  Louisville, Kentucky Additional copies of this report may  be obtained by calling Investor  Relations at 408.875.3000 CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS    One Technology Drive  Milpitas, California 95035  408.875.3000  www.kla.com GLOBAL OFFICES    KLA has offices around the globe.   For a complete list of locations go  to: www.kla.com/locations