Peter C. Wallace (2, 3, 4) Chairman of the Board of Directors Former Chief Executive Officer Gardner Denver, Inc.  (Equipment Manufacturer) Ivan J. Batista General Director – Rafael Benitez Carrillo, Inc.   (Puerto Rico) Barbara D. Emery Vice President – Human Resources David S. Green  Vice President – North Atlantic Area Thomas R. Hayes Vice President – Southeast Area Former President and Chief Executive Officer Robbins & Myers, Inc.  (Equipment Manufacturer) Madhuri A. Andrews (1, 2) Executive Vice President, Chief Digital  and Information Officer Jacobs  (Technical, Professional, and Construction Services) Peter A. Dorsman (2, 3, 4) Former Executive Vice President, Services NCR Corporation   (Self-Service Technology Solutions) Neil A. Schrimsher President & Chief Executive Officer David K. Wells Vice President – Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer Fred D. Bauer Vice President – General Counsel & Secretary Mike R. Allen President – Applied Industrial Technologies, LP (Canada) flow control, automation technologies, and related maintenance supplies. Our leading brands, specialized  services, and comprehensive knowledge serve MRO and OEM end users in virtually all industrial markets through  our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise. About the Cover: As the leading technical products,  services and solutions provider to industrial markets, Applied  continually strives to enhance customer partnerships – even  in challenging times. In recognition of our excellent support  and great customer service, our Chula Vista, CA service  center team received a Supplier Recognition Award for going  above and beyond on a consistent basis. James A. Jeffiers Vice President – Central States Area Lonny D. Lawrence Vice President – Information Technology Tracie M. Longpre Vice President – Supply Chain Joe Mangiapane Managing Director – Australia & New Zealand Jeremy S. Moorman Vice President – Operational Excellence Dan P. Komnenovich (1, 2) Former President and Chief Executive Officer Aviall, Inc.   (Aviation Parts, Related Aftermarket Operations) Robert J. Pagano, Jr. (1, 2, 4) President and Chief Executive Officer Watts Water Technologies, Inc.  (Plumbing, Heating, and Water Quality Solutions) Vincent K. Petrella (1, 2, 3, 4) Former Executive Vice President Lincoln Electric Holdings, Inc.   (Welding, Brazing Products Manufacturer) Warren E. “Bud” Hoffner Vice President, General Manager –   Fluid Power & Flow Control Kurt W. Loring Vice President – Chief Human Resources Officer Jason W. Vasquez Vice President – Sales & Marketing, U.S. Service Centers This report contains statements that are forward-looking, as that term is defined by the Securities and  Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. Applied intends that such forward-looking  statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on  current expectations regarding important risk factors, including those identified on pages 1, 7-12 and  27 of Applied’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 included herein. Accordingly, actual  results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, and the making of  such statements should not be regarded as a representation by Applied or any other person that results  expressed will be achieved. Sergio H. Nevárez President – Applied Mexico Darren B. “Ben” Padd Vice President – Midwest Area William P. Rozier Vice President – Western Area Joe A. Raver (2, 4) President and Chief Executive Officer Hillenbrand, Inc.  (Diversified Industrial Company) Neil A. Schrimsher (3) President & Chief Executive Officer Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Committees of The Board (1) Audit Committee  Chair: Vincent K. Petrella (2) Corporate Governance Committee  Chair: Peter C. Wallace (3) Executive Committee  Chair: Peter C. Wallace (4) Executive Organization and   Compensation Committee  Chair: Peter A. Dorsman Christopher Macey Corporate Controller Ryan D. Cieslak Assistant Treasurer Joe A. Raver (2, 4) President and Chief Executive Officer Hillenbrand, Inc.  (Diversified Industrial Company) Neil A. Schrimsher (3) President & Chief Executive Officer Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Committees of The Board (1) Audit Committee  Chair: Vincent K. Petrella (2) Corporate Governance Committee  Chair: Peter C. Wallace (3) Executive Committee  Chair: Peter C. Wallace (4) Executive Organization and   Compensation Committee  Chair: Peter A. Dorsman Sergio H. Nevárez President – Applied Mexico Darren B. “Ben” Padd Vice President – Midwest Area William P. Rozier Vice President – Western Area Fiscal 2021 was characterized by an evolving environment in which we demonstrated and  strengthened our ability to adapt and respond. Across the organization, we can look back at  the solid progress we have made and be proud of how well we served and supported our  customers, critical industrial infrastructure, and our fellow associates. Our operational procedures  and protocols – aligned with the CDC, OSHA and other leading health organizations – proved  beneficial in our resolve.  During the initial weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic, I stated my belief that Applied® has never been in a better position to manage  through the current environment and exit the pandemic-driven downturn even stronger. Our performance since then provides  confirmation of this position, including generating record earnings, significant cash flow, and expanding margins through the year,  while further strengthening our balance sheet. This is a direct reflection of the tremendous team we have across the organization  and highlights the strong potential that lies ahead. As fiscal 2021 progressed, we saw order momentum intensify as customers increased production activity across their facilities and  turned to us for critical MRO support. Our local presence, and expanding technical and service capabilities proved impactful as  customers began to reaccelerate growth investments and solidify supply chains. In addition, we benefited from our strategic focus  to expand our service offerings and end-market mix. Of special mention is the recent work of our flow control teams and their  involvement in providing critical products and solutions for the COVID-19 vaccine production. This includes hygienic diaphragm  valves, WFI pumps, and Clean-In-Place flow systems used to clean and regulate material flow and temperature as the vaccine is  manufactured. We are proud and grateful to contribute to society’s recovery! Today, we feel the power of resiliency. What we have gained and accomplished since the onset of the pandemic is significant  and sets the stage for our fiscal 2022 and years to come. Looking forward, we have many exciting near-term opportunities to  productively and effectively impact our customers as the leading technical products, services and solutions provider to industrial  markets. We join many others in being hopeful and excited about the prospects for our health, well-being and return to familiar activity –  personally and professionally. Still, as we have experienced since its onset, the COVID journey is a marathon, not a sprint, and we  remain firm on providing a healthy and safe work environment at Applied. Ensuring we satisfy our customers’ needs while also  adhering to associate safety remains our primary objective. • Sales of $3.2 billion, down 0.3% year-over-year  and down 1.8% on an organic daily basis  • EPS of $3.68; Non-GAAP adjusted EPS of $4.74,  up 24% year-over-year and at record levels (a)  • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 9.8%, up 80 bps  year-over-year including a favorable 20 bps LIFO impact (b)  • Cash from operations of $242 million, free cash flow  of $226 million or 121% of adjusted net income (a) (c) • Deployed $121 million toward growth and shareholder  returns through dividends, share buybacks, and M&A  • Raised quarterly dividend to $0.33 per share,  the 12th dividend increase since 2010 2 While we are still in the early innings of fully capitalizing on our potential, we are clearly gaining momentum, with related  business wins increasing and our broader teams actively engaged. Having launched in September 2020, we have seen the We Are Applied SM campaign take hold – internally and externally –  showcasing our vast experience, innovative technologies and multi-channel initiatives that work together to make us THE  supplier of choice for technical MRO, OE, and return-enhancing solutions across critical industrial infrastructure. It also serves  as a timely prelude to our approaching 100-year anniversary, demonstrating our strong foundation and the many chapters  yet to be written on the successful story of Applied. “New opportunities” and “expanding growth potential” are words that accurately describe Applied and continue to  inspire our associates. This view reflects the deep belief in our value proposition and technical industry positon, as well as  a long-standing commitment to operational excellence. These attributes have strengthened our competitive moat, while  expanding our addressable market in recent years – providing an engaging path for faster growth and margin expansion.  We have the most comprehensive portfolio and technical service capabilities, premier engineered solution expertise, and  greatest track record of consistency and commitment across our core industrial product categories. We are applying a  similar focus into new emerging industrial solutions as we adapt and position the Company for years to come. Our strong  local presence and ongoing talent investment provide further support to this foundation. Across Applied, we are eager to demonstrate our full value-add as we continue to leverage our differentiated industry  position. From our comprehensive MRO capabilities to our technical products and engineered solutions, we have multiple  channels to accelerate growth. Central to this effort is fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded fluid power,  flow control, automation, consumables, and e-business capabilities. We can see evidence of this cross-selling potential  emerging throughout the Company, supported by our We Are Applied SM business positioning and marketing campaign. Following several acquisitions over the past two years and ongoing execution of our strategic growth initiatives, we have  established Applied as a leading distributor and solutions provider of advanced factory automation technologies focused  on machine vision, robotics, motion control, and digital networking. Our expanding automation offering aligns with and  complements related trends across our legacy operations. This includes fluid power where our industry-leading capabilities  around electronic integration, software coding, pneumatics automation, and smart technology applications are driving  new growth opportunities as customers increasingly focus on machine advancements and data analytics. In addition, we  continue to expand our industrial IoT offering throughout our Service Center network to address our customers’ Factory of  the Future initiatives. We are encouraged by our progress in identifying and developing opportunities aimed at connecting our automation and  smart technology capabilities across varied vertical markets, such as Semiconductors & Electronics, Medical & Life Science,  Food Processing, Logistics, and Data Centers. Our growing position across these emerging industrial technologies together  with our holistic design, assembly, and integration solutions are driving greater recognition across our served industries.  We aim to expand this position in coming years, presenting a significant growth opportunity as technology continues to  converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end markets. We recognize that building on our legacy also means being a responsible corporate citizen. This responsibility is  demonstrated as we implement greener practices in our operations, promote diversity and continuous learning across  our organization, and continue to focus on and support the well-being of our associates and communities. Overall, our  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts are best summarized as Committed, Responsible and Supportive. We  advise customers on energy saving opportunities, including conducting energy audits in critical areas such as motors, belting  and gearing. Our innovative fluid power systems and solutions reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase equipment  efficiency, and support cleaner energy sources and emerging electrification technologies. Additionally, our specialty flow  control products support power generation infrastructure with cleaner technologies such as steam and geothermal. We also  promote product alternatives that are bio-based, non-toxic and / or made from recycled content. Collectively, we recognize our business requirements and social responsibility in serving all stakeholders. Our updated  Corporate Social Responsibility report highlights this ongoing progress and demonstrated commitment to ensuring that  Applied conducts business fairly, honestly and ethically, in every location where we do business. Clearly, we have relevant profitable growth opportunities to help us execute our strategic plan elements of Core Growth;  Products and Services Expansion; Automation, Fluid Power, and Flow Control Leadership; Operational Excellence; and  Acquisitions. We are fully prepared to leverage our capabilities and build upon our momentum… serving customers and  generating benefits for associates, suppliers, communities and shareholders. On behalf of all of Applied, we thank you not only for your continued trust in Applied, but for recognizing our significant  value and potential. We are proud of our accomplishments to date, and we continue to believe our best days are ahead…   Working Together, Winning Together! As we enter fiscal 2022 – and our 99th year of doing business – the resilient nature of Applied is apparent through  individual efforts, teamwork, cross-functional collaboration, and solid financial performance. As markets stabilize  and continue to demonstrate sequential growth, we will take full advantage of the fundamental drivers and strategic  initiatives that will benefit our business throughout our long-range strategy horizon… propelling us to our 100-year  anniversary in 2023 and beyond! Neil A. Schrimsher President & Chief Executive Officer operational and capital requirements (This page intentionally left blank.) Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes x	No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   Yes o	No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required  to file such reports); and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  x    No  o Ohio 34-0117420 (State or other jurisdiction of  incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K APPLIED INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every  Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter)  during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes  x   No  o  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a  smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting  company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period  for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the  effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b))  by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.  ☑ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     Yes ☐   No  x State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference  to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the  last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter (December 31, 2020): $2,993,384,000. The registrant had outstanding 38,515,334 shares of common stock as of August 6, 2021. Portions of the proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., to be held  October 26, 2021, are incorporated by reference into Parts II, III, and IV of this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. 2 Item 1A. 7 Item 1B. 13 Item 2. 13 Item 3. 14 Item 4. PART II Item 5. Item 6. 16 Item 7. Item 7A. 28 Item 8. 29 Item 9. Item 9A. 61 Item 9B. 63 PART III Item 10. 63 Item 11. 63 Item 12. Item 13. 64 Item 14. 64 PART IV Item 15. 65 Item 16. This report, including the documents incorporated by reference, contains statements that are forward- looking, based on management's current expectations about the future.  Forward-looking statements are  often identified by qualifiers such as “guidance,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend,” “will,” “should,”  “could,” “would,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “may,” "optimistic" and derivative or similar  words or expressions.  Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, or goals are also forward- looking statements.  These statements may discuss, among other things, expected growth, future sales,  future cash flows, future capital expenditures, future performance, and the anticipation and expectations  of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. ("Applied") and its management as to future occurrences and  trends.  Applied intends that the forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors established in  the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its  rules, regulations, and releases. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking  statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors, many of which are outside  Applied's control.  Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward- looking statements, and the making of those statements should not be regarded as a representation by  Applied or another person that the results expressed in the statements will be achieved.  In addition,  Applied assumes no obligation publicly to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether because  of new information or events, or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Applied believes its primary risk factors include, but are not limited to, those identified in the following  sections of this annual report on Form 10-K: “Risk Factors” in Item 1A; “Narrative Description of Business,”  in Item 1, section (c); and “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  Operations” in Item 7.  PLEASE READ THOSE DISCLOSURES CAREFULLY. ITEM 1. BUSINESS In this annual report on Form 10-K, “Applied” refers to Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., an Ohio corporation.  References to “we,” “us,” “our,” and “the Company” refer to Applied and its subsidiaries. We are a leading distributor and solutions provider of industrial motion, power, control, and automation  technologies.  Through our comprehensive network of approximately 5,900 employee associates and 568 facilities  including service center, fluid power, flow control, and automation operations, as well as repair shops and  distribution centers, we offer a selection of more than 7.5 million stock keeping units with a focus on industrial  bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, specialty flow control, and advanced  factory automation solutions.  We market our products with a set of service solutions including inventory  management, engineering, design, assembly, repair, and systems integration, as well as customized mechanical,  fabricated rubber, and shop services.  Our customers use our products and services for both MRO (maintenance,  repair, and operating) and OEM (original equipment manufacturing) applications across a variety of end markets  primarily in North America, as well as Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.  Headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio,  Applied and its predecessor companies have engaged in business since 1923. Our internet address is www.applied.com.  The following documents are available free of charge via hyperlink from  the investor relations area of our website: The information available via hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Information regarding developments in our business can be found in Item 7 under the caption “Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  This information is incorporated here by  reference. VALUE PROPOSITION We serve a segment of the industrial market that requires technical expertise and service given that our products and  solutions are directly tied to companies’ production and efficiency initiatives.  As such, we believe we are integral to  our customers’ supply chains considering the critical nature and direct exposure our solutions have on our customers’  core production equipment and plant capabilities.  While we compete with other distributors and service providers  offering products and solutions addressing this area of the industrial supply chain, we believe our industry position  and value proposition benefits from relative advantages tied to the following key attributes: We focus on helping customers minimize their production downtime, improve machine performance, and reduce  overall procurement and maintenance costs, as well as optimize the efficiency and safety of their facilities and  equipment.  A primary focus for our service center network is responding to a critical “break-fix” situation, which  requires knowledge of a customer’s facility, localized inventory, timely delivery capabilities, service execution, and  accountability.  In addition, our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations design, engineer, and  integrate solutions focused on making a customer’s operations and equipment more productive, cost-efficient, and automated.  We believe our products and solutions are increasingly critical within the industrial supply chain given an  aging and tighter customer labor force, more sophisticated production equipment and processes, a greater focus on  plant floor optimization, and compliance and regulatory requirements. INDUSTRY AND COMPETITION We primarily compete within North America which we believe offers significant growth potential given our industry  position, established distribution and sales network, market fragmentation, and customer technical requirements, as  well as opportunities tied to automation and smart technologies.  Growth within our industry is influenced by  broader industrial production and capacity utilization, as well as inflation, labor dynamics, capital spending,  geopolitical events, factory optimization initiatives, changes in industrial equipment technologies, and supply chain  requirements. Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid  power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, and  automation solutions, and to a lesser extent providers of tools, safety products, and other industrial and  maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations.  We also  compete with original equipment manufacturers and integrators.  The identity and number of our competitors vary  throughout the geographic, industry, and product markets we serve. STRATEGIC GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES • Capture market share across our core service center network.  Our network of service centers located close to industrial companies allows us to respond quickly and effectively to critical MRO situations involving direct production infrastructure and industrial equipment.  We believe more sophisticated industrial production processes and customer labor constraints, as well as increased industrial capacity and manufacturing activity across North America could drive greater demand for our products and services.  We continue to deploy initiatives to further enhance our capabilities across our service center network and gain market share.  These include investments in analytics, strategic account penetration, sales process optimization, talent development, and digital channel solutions, as well as fully leveraging and cross-selling our expanded product and service platform across fluid power, flow control, automation, and consumables solutions. • Extend our leading fluid power and flow control position as demand for comprehensive solutions grows.  We provide innovative fluid power and flow control solutions including systems design and engineering, electronic control integration, software programming, valve actuation, compliance consulting, fabrication and assembly, and dedicated service and repair.  Demand for these solutions is increasing across a variety of industrial, off-highway mobile, technology, and process related applications given a greater focus on power consumption, plant efficiency and automation, emissions control, electrification, remote monitoring, advancements in machining, regulatory and compliance standards, and data analytics.  We believe our service and engineering capabilities, shop network, and supplier relationships, combined with our software coding and smart technology application knowledge, are key competitive advantages.  We see opportunities to leverage these advantages across new and underserved geographies, as well as through new commercial solutions that could drive a greater share gain of this market opportunity in coming years. • Leverage technical industry position in developing growth around emerging industrial technologies. We are expanding our position and capabilities focused on advanced factory automation and smart technologies that optimize and connect customers’ industrial supply chains.  We believe we have a favorable position to capture this addressable market given our technical product focus, service capabilities, embedded customer relationships and knowledge across direct production infrastructure and equipment, and existing supplier relationships.  Following several business acquisitions made since fiscal 2020, we now offer products and solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and distribution of machine vision, robotic technologies, and motion control.  Our emerging growth across these areas is diversifying our end-market exposure with greater penetration into technology, life sciences, logistics, and food and beverage industries. We expect to continue to expand our automation footprint and capabilities in coming years, as well as pursue opportunities tied to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT).  We believe this market potential could be meaningful as technology continues to converge within traditional industrial supply chains and end-markets. • Execute ongoing operational initiatives supporting margin profile.  We have a number of initiatives focused on driving operational improvements throughout the organization.  Systems investments in recent years including common ERP platforms are supporting opportunities in leveraging shared services, refining our sales management process, and standardizing pricing and sourcing functions, while we continue to optimize our shop and distribution network and analytics.  We also remain focused on achieving margin synergies across our operations following expansion into flow control and automation.  This includes enhanced pricing functions, leveraging vendor procurement, freight savings, and refined cost management.  Combined with OPERATIONS Our distribution and sales network consists of approximately 445 locations in our Service Center Distribution  segment and 123 locations in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  This includes service centers, distribution  centers, and facilities tied to our fluid power, flow control, and automation operations.  Our service centers resemble  local inventory hubs located in close proximity to our customers and focused primarily on MRO related fulfillment  and service needs.  Our fluid power, flow control, and automation locations support technical and shop-oriented  services integral to the more specialized and integrated nature of the products and solutions they provide.  Other  operations and channels we market through include inventory management services for indirect consumable  supplies and digital solutions including our Applied.com website, electronic data interchange (EDI) and other  electronic interfaces with customers' technology platforms and plant maintenance systems. Our distribution centers provide daily service to our service centers, helping replenish inventories and shipping  products directly to customers where appropriate.  An efficient supply chain and timely delivery of our products is  vital to our value proposition particularly when customers require products for emergency repairs.  We utilize  dedicated third-party transportation providers, our own delivery vehicles, as well as surface and air common carrier  and courier services.  Customers may also pick up items at our service centers.  We maintain product inventory levels  at each service center tailored to the local market.  These inventories consist of standard items as well as other items  specific to local customer demand. Our operations are primarily based in the U.S. where 86% of our fiscal 2021 sales were generated.  We also have  international operations, the largest of which is in Canada (8% of fiscal 2021 sales) with the balance (6% of fiscal  2021 sales) in Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore. SUPPLIERS We are a leading distributor of products including bearings, power transmission products, engineered fluid power  components and systems, specialty flow control solutions, advanced automation products, industrial rubber  products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, and other industrial and maintenance supplies. These products are generally supplied to us by manufacturers whom we serve as a non-exclusive distributor.  The  suppliers also may provide us product training, as well as sales and marketing support.  Authorizations to represent  particular suppliers and product lines vary by geographic region, particularly for our fluid power, flow control, and  automation businesses.  We believe our supplier relationships are generally good, and many have existed for  decades.  The disruption of relationships with certain suppliers, or the disruption of their operations, could adversely  affect our business. Our product suppliers typically confine their direct sales activities to large-volume transactions, mainly with large  original equipment manufacturers.  The suppliers generally do not sell maintenance and repair products directly to  the customer, but instead refer the customer to us or another distributor. MARKETS  We purchase from thousands of product manufacturers and resell the products to thousands of customers in a wide  variety of industries, including agriculture and food processing, cement, chemicals and petrochemicals, fabricated  metals, forest products, industrial machinery and equipment, life sciences, mining, oil and gas, primary metals,  technology, transportation, and utilities, as well as to government entities.  Customers range from very large  businesses, with which we may have multiple-location relationships, to very small ones.  We are not significantly  dependent on a single customer or group of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on  our business as a whole, and no single customer accounts for more than 4% of our fiscal 2021 sales. • Pursue value-creating acquisitions to supplement growth and strengthen industry position. We expect to pursue additional acquisitions aligned with our growth strategy and long-term financial targets. We view acquisitions as an important growth consideration given high fragmentation, greater operational and technical requirements, and supplier authorizations within the markets we serve.  We believe our sourcing strategy, cash generation capabilities, industry relationships, and operational discipline are key to our acquisition success.  In addition, dedicated corporate teams and related support functions provide strategic oversight of critical work streams and integration execution, which we believe enhances our ability to capture synergistic value.  Over the near to intermediate-term, our acquisition priorities are focused on continuing to expand our current offerings, while further enhancing our technical differentiation and value-added service capabilities. growth in more profitable areas of our business and our history of cost accountability, we see ongoing  opportunity to optimize our margin profile and cash generation in coming years. SERVICES We believe part of our success, differentiation, and competitive advantage is attributable to the comprehensive set of  services and solutions we provide, which we view as critical given the technical nature and application of our core  product offering of motion, power, control, and automation technologies.  The foundation of our service capabilities  lies with our technically oriented associate team, which includes engineers, industry segment specialists, mechanics,  technicians, fluid power specialists, as well as our systems, shop network, and supplier relationships.  We believe  knowledge and service capabilities relating to our core product offering are increasingly needed across our customer  base given skilled labor constraints within their operations, maintenance requirements, and more sophisticated plant  equipment and processes.  Our services and solutions help customers minimize production downtime, improve  machine performance, and reduce overall procurement and maintenance costs.  By providing high levels of service,  product and industry expertise, and technical support, while at the same time offering product breadth and  competitive pricing, we believe we develop stronger, longer-lasting, and more profitable customer relationships.    See the Reportable Segments section below for more detail on the various service solutions we provide to customers. REPORTABLE SEGMENTS We report results of operations in two segments: 1) Service Center Based Distribution, and 2) Fluid Power & Flow  Control.  In fiscal 2021, our Service Center Based Distribution segment represented 68% of our total sales, while our  Fluid Power & Flow Control segment represented 32% of our total sales. Service Center Based Distribution.  Our Service Center Based Distribution segment includes our legacy MRO  distribution operations across North America, Australia, and New Zealand.  This business operates through local  service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the maintenance  and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include industrial  bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic components,  filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of customers’ machinery  and equipment. Service center locations are stocked with product inventory tailored to each local market and staffed with customer  sales and service representatives, account managers, as well as product and industry specialists.  Customer sales and  service representatives receive, process, and expedite customer orders, provide product information, and assist  account managers in serving customers.  Account managers make onsite calls to customers to provide product  information, identify customer requirements, make recommendations, and assist in implementing equipment  maintenance and storeroom management programs.  Industry specialists assist with product applications in their  areas of expertise.  Service centers market product offerings with a suite of services that create additional value for  the customer.  This includes onsite training, product fabrication and repair, and inventory management solutions.   We also provide analysis and measurement of productivity improvement and cost savings potential from these  services through our Applied Documented Value-Added® (DVA®) reports. The segment includes operations focused on certain end markets and indirect consumable supplies through vendor  managed inventory solutions, as well as regional fabricated rubber shops and service field crews, which install,  modify, and repair conveyor belts and rubber linings, and make hose assemblies in accordance with customer  requirements. Fluid Power & Flow Control.  Our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that specialize in  distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power technologies,  and engineered flow control products and services.  We believe we are the largest distributor and solutions provider  of fluid power and industrial flow control products and solutions in the U.S.  The segment also includes our  operations that focus on advanced automation solutions, including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and  smart technologies. Our fluid power operations offer products and services primarily used within industrial, off-highway mobile, and  technology applications.  Fluid power products include hydraulic and pneumatic technologies using liquids and gases  to transmit power, typically in smaller spaces than other forms of power transmission.  Hydraulic products offer high  power to weight ratios, high torque at low speeds, and power reliability, while pneumatic products are focused on  lightweight applications in need of speed and precision.  Our fluid power products and solutions are commonly used  for off-highway equipment, heavy industrial equipment and machines at factories, marine and offshore equipment,  factory automation, food processing equipment, packaging operations, and downstream energy process systems.  Operations are supported by a team of certified fluid power specialists, mechanics, technicians, and engineers that  provide technical services ranging from system design and integration, electronic control integration, hydraulic  assemblies, repair and rebuild, manifold design and assembly, customized filtration solutions, software programming  and repair, and hydraulic system retrofits. Our specialty flow control operations provide highly engineered process flow control products, solutions, and  services.  Products include pumps, valves, fittings, hoses, process instrumentation, actuators, and filtration supplies  which are used to control the flow of liquids and gases in mission-critical industrial applications.  Our flow control  products and services are focused on MRO related applications; OEMs; and engineering, procurement, and  construction (EPC) firms across a variety of industries including chemicals, steel, power, oil and gas, pulp and paper,  life sciences, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, and general industrials.  Similar to our fluid power operations, our  flow control offering includes technical service capabilities such as flow control systems integration, repair services,  valve actuation, process instrumentation, pipe and hose fabrication, and compliance consulting. Our advanced automation operations provide solutions focused on the design, assembly, integration, and  distribution of machine vision, collaborative robots, mobile robots, RFID, industrial networking, and machine learning  technologies for OEMs, machine builders, integrators, and other industrial and technology end users.  Products and  solutions are marketed across a variety of industries including technology, medical, life sciences, logistics, consumer,  and general industrial.  Our automation business helps customers develop, produce, and integrate machine and  facility automation solutions using comprehensive technology and application knowledge.  A core element of our  strategy and value proposition within automation is our value-added and engineered solution capabilities, enabling  us to provide in-depth consultative, design, engineering, assembly, testing, and support services for various customer  requirements. HUMAN CAPITAL We attribute our business success to talented, dedicated employee associates who live our Core Values of integrity,  respect, customer focus, commitment to excellence, accountability, innovation, continuous improvement, and  teamwork. Associate Development.  We strive to attract, retain, and develop a diverse group of high-performing associates,  empowering them to achieve their potential and providing them opportunities to test their skills, increase their  responsibilities, and advance their careers.  Applied’s commitment to associate development is reflected in our  investments in a learning management system (offering a wide array of internal facilitated training courses, supplier  product training, and other third-party courses), a modern social learning platform, and in-person training through  which associates can continually expand their knowledge base and position themselves to achieve their professional  goals. Compensation and Benefits.  We seek to provide competitive compensation and benefits in order to help attract  and retain high quality associates.  In the U.S., Applied offers comprehensive benefits with choices to fit our  associates’ varied needs, including the following: medical, dental, vision, and prescription drug insurance; short and  long-term disability benefits; life insurance plans; Section 401(k) retirement savings plan with company match; paid  vacations and holidays; incentive programs; an employee assistance program; and an educational reimbursement  program. Diversity and Inclusion.  We are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that is respectful to all associates  and believe this serves as a cornerstone for a strong company.  We employ multiple initiatives to recruit, train, and  advance diverse associates.  In the area of recruitment, for example, we engage in on-campus events and targeted  recruitment strategies that increase our exposure to diverse populations in order to promote enhanced diversity in  our hiring. Health and Safety.  Applied is also committed to the safety and well-being of our associates. In the U.S., all  associates are required to complete specific assigned online training courses annually, which include offerings on  workplace safety hazards and vehicle safety.  In addition, role-specific training is assigned based on the types of  hazards associates may face while carrying out their job function, such as training modules on operating in confined  spaces, forklift operation, and lockout/tagout procedures.  In our most recent fiscal year, our U.S. associates  completed nearly 14,000 such safety training courses. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on protecting our associates’ health and safety, while  ensuring our continued capability to serve our customers.  As a provider of critical parts, services, and solutions to  essential industries, Applied remained open for business.  We implemented significant changes to ensure a safe  operating environment for our associates and to protect our customers and communities, including remote work as  feasible, social distancing protocols, heightened sanitation procedures, and masking policies.  BACKLOG AND SEASONALITY  Backlog orders are not material to our business as a whole, although they are a more important factor for our fluid  power, flow control, and automation businesses.  Our business has exhibited minor seasonality.  In particular, sales  per day during the first half of our fiscal year have historically been slightly lower than the second half due, in part,  to the impact of customer plant shutdowns, summer vacations and holidays. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, TRADE NAMES, AND LICENSES  Customer recognition of our service marks and trade names, including Applied Industrial Technologies®, Applied®,  and AIT®, is an important contributing factor to our sales.  Patents and licenses are not of material importance to  our business. RAW MATERIALS AND GENERAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS   Our operations are dependent on general industrial and economic conditions.  We would be adversely affected by  the unavailability of raw materials to our suppliers, prolonged labor disputes experienced by suppliers or customers,  or by events or conditions that have an adverse effect on industrial activity generally in the markets we serve or on  key customer industries. WORKING CAPITAL Our working capital position is discussed in Item 7 under the caption “Management's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  This information is incorporated here by reference. We require substantial working capital related to accounts receivable and inventories.  Significant amounts of  inventory are carried to meet customers' delivery requirements.  We generally require payments for sales on account  within 30 days.  Returns are not considered to have a material effect on our working capital requirements.  We  believe these practices are generally consistent among companies in our industry. ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS We believe that compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise  relating to environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or  competitive position. In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could  materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the  only risks facing the Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption “Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  This information is incorporated here by  reference. Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we  currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.  Further,  the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized. Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them,  including general economic conditions.  The markets for our products and services are subject to conditions or  events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our  products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand  for and production of customers' goods and materials. When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply,  higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign  competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products  and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability  and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more  difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us,  as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto continue to impact  our results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain  and cannot be predicted.  The COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic  disruption.  The effects of the pandemic resulted in lost or delayed sales to us, and we experienced business  disruptions as we modified our business practices (including travel, work locations, and cancellation of physical  participation in meetings).  While the pandemic’s impact on social and economic conditions has subsided, the extent  to which it will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition will depend on evolving factors  that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the following: the duration, spread, and severity of the  pandemic, including due to virus variants, in the countries in which we operate; responsive measures taken by  governmental authorities, businesses, and individuals; the effect on our customers and their demand for our  products and services; the effect on our suppliers and disruptions to the global supply chain; our ability to sell and  provide our products and services and otherwise operate effectively, including as a result of travel restrictions and  associates working from home; disruptions to our operations resulting from associate illness; restrictions or  disruptions to, or reduced availability of, transportation; customers’ ability to pay for our services and products;  closures of our facilities or those of our customers or suppliers; the impact of reduced customer demand on  purchasing incentives we earn from suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating  conditions can resume.  In addition, the pandemic’s impact on the economy could affect the proper functioning of  financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, product and energy costs, and interest rates.  The  pandemic’s effects may also amplify the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  and may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or  stock price. Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial  results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate  or customers otherwise aggregate their purchasing power, a greater proportion of our sales could be derived from  large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can produce  changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and  contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among suppliers  could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.   There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends. An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The  industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line  distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions,  automation technologies, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield  supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and  multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the  local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do,  broader or more appealing product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key  suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market  share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and  profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide  competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to product and service  types, brands, quality, or prices.  Technological evolution or other factors can render product and service offerings  obsolete, potentially impairing our competitive position and our inventory values. Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political  conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14% of our sales in 2021.  This  presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political  instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade  policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations. Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable  exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect  our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our strategies to grow sales and  earnings.  We have numerous strategies and initiatives to grow sales, leveraging the breadth of our product  offering, supplier relationships, and value-added technical capabilities to differentiate us and improve our competitive position.  We also continually seek to enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve  earnings.  Many of our activities target improvements to the consistency of our operating practices across our  hundreds of locations.  If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are  unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could  adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of  various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding,  but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability  of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to  meet demand, financial problems or insolvency, trade issues, labor disputes, public health emergencies, weather  conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control. In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors  generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the  following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the  geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support  programs; product purchase or stocking expectations; or the extent to which the suppliers seek to serve end users  directly. The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in  response to declining customer demand.  Certain product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors,  including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives,  certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.    In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When  demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive  programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability. Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust  the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials,  components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is  composed of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass  along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution,  market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary  environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability. While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if  severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit  margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example,  declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently,  our sales to those customers. Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer  millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross  profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit  percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation,  pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition. Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach  could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information  systems to, among other things, process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections,  purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost- effective operations, provide superior service to customers, conduct business communications, and compile financial  results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to man-made or natural causes, including  power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes  and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings. Because of our reliance on information systems, we are vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion  from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, including ransomware and business e-mail compromise, on our  systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, breaches of our systems could  not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft of funds, the theft, loss, or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information, or the breach of customer, supplier, or employee information.  A security  incident involving our systems, or even an inadvertent failure to comply with data privacy and security laws and  regulations, could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal  liability, remediation costs, and other losses and expenses. Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to  complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their  anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been  important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to  negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete  acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for  acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make  can also adversely impact our market position. We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays,  or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For  example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel,  and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner. Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost  savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the  time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including  the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory  effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs  or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer  relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from  entering into new markets (geographic, product, service, end-industry, or otherwise), especially those in which we  may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired  company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial  resources. An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting  product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our  headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious,  prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, security incident, terrorist attack, public health  emergency, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, transportation disruption, or  other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our indebtedness entails debt service commitments that could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our  obligations and could limit or reduce our flexibility.  As of June 30, 2021, we had total debt obligations  outstanding of $829.4 million.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our  ability to generate cash in the future.  Our debt commitments may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of  our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund  planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic  initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future  (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth  strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower  levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt  could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our indebtedness may  adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline. Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or  borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market  volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing  new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could  limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us. and notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements, included below in Item 8 under the caption “Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data.”  That information is incorporated here by reference. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to  accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to  become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require  effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our  financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or  overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance  with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable  assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be  materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to  implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,  financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence  in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional  financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could  materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to  incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the  Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely  affected. Goodwill, long-lived, and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become  impaired.  We review goodwill, long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable  amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the  carrying amounts are not recoverable.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include  significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant  underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset  before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2021, we recorded a $49.5 million non-cash charge for the impairment  of certain intangible, lease, and fixed assets. As of June 30, 2021, we had remaining $560.1 million of goodwill and $279.6 million of other intangible assets,  net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used  in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that  are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market  conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market  conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods. We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method by which LIBOR is  determined.  As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $738.6 million of aggregate consolidated indebtedness  that was indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”).  As of June 30, 2021, approximately $420.0  million of this variable rate debt was converted to a fixed rate through an interest rate swap.  The swap agreement,  entered into in January 2019 and subsequently amended and extended, is indexed to LIBOR.  The U.K. Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates LIBOR, announced in 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks  to submit rates for LIBOR after 2021. However, in March 2021, the FCA proposed to extend publication of the most  commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, including those tenors most relevant to us, through June 30, 2023.  Any of  our LIBOR-based borrowings that extend beyond June 30, 2023 will need to be converted to a replacement rate  prior to that date. Regulators and industry groups have identified recommended alternatives for certain reference  rates, but there continues to be considerable uncertainty about what benchmark or benchmarks will replace LIBOR  and when that will occur.  The full impact of the transition away from LIBOR remains unclear, but the transition and  related changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs. Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our  success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial,  sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In  addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against  us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who  are familiar with the products and services we sell, and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or  adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition  for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the  workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs. We are subject to legal, regulatory, and litigation risks, which may have a material adverse effect on our  business. We are subject to a wide array of laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment  in which we operate, including with respect to taxes, international trade, employment laws, and data privacy, could  adversely and materially affect the Company. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.   These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment- related matters.  In addition, we could face claims or additional costs arising from our compliance with regulatory  requirements, including those relating to the following: our status as a public company; our government contracts;  tax compliance; our engagement in international trade; and our collection, storage, or transmission of personal data. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities  associated with our business.  The policies are subject to limits, deductibles, and exclusions that result in our  retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.   The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating  expenses, the inability to participate in existing or future government contacts, or other adverse consequences,  which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. Not applicable. We believe having a local presence is important to serving our customers, so we maintain service centers and other  operations in local markets throughout the countries in which we operate.  At June 30, 2021, we owned real  properties at 115 locations and leased 418 locations.  Certain properties house more than one operation. The properties in Baldwinsville, Newark, Midland, and Stafford are used in our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Fontana and Longview properties are used in both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The remaining properties are used in the Service Center Based Distribution  segment. We consider our properties generally sufficient to meet our requirements for office space and inventory stocking. A service center's size is primarily influenced by the amount and types of inventory the service center requires to  meet customers' needs. When opening new operations, we have tended to lease rather than purchase real property.  We do not consider  any service center, distribution center, or shop property to be material, because we believe that, if it becomes  necessary or desirable to relocate an operation, other suitable property could be found. In addition to operating locations, we own or lease certain properties which in the aggregate are not material and  are either for sale, lease, or sublease to third parties due to a relocation or closing.  We also may lease or sublease to  others unused portions of buildings. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. Applied and/or one of its subsidiaries is a party to pending legal proceedings with respect to product liability,  commercial, personal injury, employment, and other matters.  Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of  these proceedings or the range of reasonably possible loss, we do not expect, based on circumstances currently  known, that the ultimate resolution of any of these proceedings will have, either individually or in the aggregate, a  material adverse effect on Applied's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Not applicable. Applied's executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for a term of one year, or until their successors are  chosen and qualified, at the Board's organization meeting held following the annual meeting of shareholders. The following is a list of the executive officers and a description of their business experience during the past five  years.  Except as otherwise stated, the positions and offices indicated are with Applied, and the persons were most  recently elected to their current positions on October 27, 2020: Name Positions and Experience Age Neil A. Schrimsher President since 2013 and Chief Executive Officer since 2011. 57 Fred D. Bauer Vice President-General Counsel since 2002 and Secretary since 2001. 55 Warren E. Hoffner Vice President, General Manager-Fluid Power & Flow Control since October  2018. He served as Vice President, General Manager-Fluid Power from 2003  to October 2018. The Board of Directors designated Mr. Hoffner an executive  officer in 2015. Kurt W. Loring Vice President-Chief Human Resources Officer since 2014.  52 David K. Wells Vice President-Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer since September 2017. He  served as Vice President-Finance from May 2017 through August 2017. Prior  to joining Applied, from 2015 to May 2017, Mr. Wells was Vice President &  Chief Financial Officer of ESAB, a manufacturer of welding and material  cutting products and a division of Colfax Corporation (NYSE: CFX). Prior to  then he was Vice President & Chief Financial Officer of Apex Tool Group, a  manufacturer of hand and power tools. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER (d) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under  the Plans or Programs (1) April 1, 2021 to April 30, 2021 — —  — 864,618  May 1, 2021 to May 31, 2021 379,678 100.37  379,678 484,940  June 1, 2021 to June 30, 2021 20,322 97.37  20,322 464,618  Total 400,000 100.22  400,000 464,618 Applied's common stock, without par value, is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange with the ticker  symbol “AIT.”  On August 6, 2021, there were 3,511 shareholders of record including 2,356 shareholders in the  Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Retirement Savings Plan. The following table summarizes Applied's repurchases of its common stock in the quarter ended June 30, 2021. (1) On October 24, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 1.5 million shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the prior authorization.  We publicly announced the new authorization on October 26, 2016.  Purchases can be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  The authorization is in effect until all shares are purchased, or the Board revokes or amends the authorization. PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Applied's consolidated financial statements and  related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of the annual report titled Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Year-End Statistics — June 30 Current ratio 2.8  2.7  2.7  2.4  2.8  Operating facilities 568  580  600  610  552  Shareholders of record 3,535  3,772  4,165  4,323  4,687  Return on assets (a) (b) (c) (e) (f)  6.4 %  1.0 %  6.3 %  8.0 %  10.2 % Return on equity (a) (b) (c) (e) (g)  16.3 %  2.8 %  16.8 %  18.2 %  19.1 % (In thousands, except per share amounts and statistical data) 2021 2020 2019  2018 (d) 2017 Consolidated Operations — Year Ended June 30 Net sales $ 3,235,919  $ 3,245,652  $ 3,472,739  $ 3,073,274  $ 2,593,746  Depreciation and amortization of property 20,780  21,196  20,236  17,798  15,306  Amortization: Intangible assets 34,365  41,553  41,883  32,065  24,371  SARs and stock options  2,526  2,954  2,437  1,961  1,891  Operating income (a) (b) (c) 205,454  88,989  233,788  225,827  175,386  Net income (a) (b) (c) (e) 144,757  24,042  143,993  141,625  133,910  Per share data: Net income: Basic 3.73  0.62  3.72  3.65  3.43  Diluted (a) (b) (c) 3.68  0.62  3.68  3.61  3.40  Cash dividend 1.30  1.26  1.22  1.18  1.14 (a) In fiscal 2021, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $49.5 million as a result of reduced economic conditions and business alignment initiatives related to a portion of the Service Center Based Distribution segment exposed to oil and gas end markets.  Excluding the impairment charge, the fiscal 2021 return on assets would be 8.0% and return on equity would be 20.6%. (b) A goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2020 reduced operating income by $131.0 million, net income by $118.8 million, and diluted earnings per share by $3.04.  Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, the fiscal 2020 return on assets would be 6.5% and return on equity would be 16.4%. (c) A long-lived intangible asset impairment charge in fiscal 2019 reduced operating income by $31.6 million, net income by $26.9 million, and diluted earnings per share by $0.69, which includes the impact of a $3.8 million valuation allowance on certain Canadian deferred tax assets.  Excluding the long-lived intangible asset impairment charge, the fiscal 2019 return on assets would be 7.5% and return on equity would be 20.0%. (d) FY 2018 includes the acquisition of FCX Performance, Inc. from the acquisition date of 1/31/2018. (e) FY 2017 includes a tax benefit pertaining to a worthless stock tax deduction of $22.2 million, or $0.56 per share.  Excluding the worthless stock tax deduction, the fiscal 2017 return on assets would be 8.5% and return on equity would be 16.2%. (f) Return on assets is calculated as net income divided by monthly average assets. (g) Return on equity is calculated as net income divided by the average shareholders’ equity (beginning of the year plus end of the year divided by 2). ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION With approximately 5,900 associates across North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, Applied  Industrial Technologies, Inc. ("Applied," the "Company," "We," "Us," or "Our") is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  We have a  long tradition of growth dating back to 1923, the year our business was founded in Cleveland, Ohio.  At June 30,  2021, business was conducted in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and  Singapore from approximately 568 facilities. The following is Management's Discussion and Analysis of significant factors that have affected our financial  condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods included in the accompanying consolidated  balance sheets, statements of consolidated income, consolidated comprehensive income and consolidated cash  flows in Item 8 under the caption "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."  When reviewing the discussion  and analysis set forth below, please note that a significant number of SKUs (Stock Keeping Units) we sell in any given  year were not sold in the comparable period of the prior year, resulting in the inability to quantify certain commonly  used comparative metrics analyzing sales, such as changes in product mix and volume. Our fiscal 2021 consolidated sales were $3.2 billion, a decrease of $9.7 million or 0.3% compared to the prior year,  with the acquisitions of Olympus Controls (Olympus), Advanced Control Solutions (ACS) and Gibson Engineering  (Gibson) increasing sales by $44.1 million or 1.4% and favorable foreign currency of $16.5 million increasing sales by  0.5%.  Gross profit margin was 28.9% for both fiscal 2021 and 2020.  Operating margin increased to 6.3% in fiscal  2021 from 2.7% in fiscal 2020. Our earnings per share was $3.68 in fiscal 2021 versus $0.62 in fiscal year 2020. Fiscal 2021 results include a $49.5 million pre-tax non-cash charge related to the impairment of certain intangible,  lease, and fixed assets, as well as non-routine costs of $7.8 million pre-tax.  These items are the result of weaker  economic conditions and business alignment initiatives across a portion of the Service Center Based Distribution  segment operations exposed to oil and gas end markets.  Total non-routine costs of $7.8 million pre-tax include a  $7.4 million inventory reserve charge recorded within cost of sales, and $0.4 million related to severance and facility  consolidation recorded in selling, distribution and administrative expense.  These charges were offset in the current  year by other non-routine income of $2.6 million.  On a net basis, the fiscal 2021 non-routine items unfavorably  impacted operating income by $54.7 million, net income by $41.7 million, and earnings per share by $1.06 per  share.  The prior year included a $131.0 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded during fiscal 2020  related to the goodwill associated with the Company's FCX Performance, Inc. (FCX) operations within the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The non-cash goodwill impairment charge decreased net income by $118.8 million  and earnings per share by $3.04 per share for fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2021 ended on a positive note as underlying demand continued to strengthen across both segments during  the fourth quarter reflecting sustained recovery in our core end-markets and momentum across our internal growth  initiatives. We are managing inflation well and controlling costs, while benefiting from productivity enhancements.  Fiscal 2022 is off to a positive start with organic sales through early August up by a high-teens percent over the prior  year and customer indications signaling sustained demand momentum. Shareholders’ equity was $932.5 million at June 30, 2021 compared to $843.5 million at June 30, 2020.  Working  capital increased $35.2 million from June 30, 2020 to $768.9 million at June 30, 2021.  The current ratio was 2.8 to  1 and 2.7 to 1 at June 30, 2021 and at June 30, 2020, respectively. Applied monitors several economic indices that have been key indicators for industrial economic activity in the United  States.  These include the Industrial Production (IP) and Manufacturing Capacity Utilization (MCU) indices published  by the Federal Reserve Board and the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) published by the Institute for Supply  Management (ISM).  Historically, our performance correlates well with the MCU, which measures productivity and  calculates a ratio of actual manufacturing output versus potential full capacity output.  When manufacturing plants  are running at a high rate of capacity, they tend to wear out machinery and require replacement parts. The MCU (total industry) and IP indices increased since June 2020 correlating with an overall increase in the  economy in the same period.  The ISM PMI registered 60.6 in June 2021, an increase from the June 2020 revised AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Month MCU PMI IP June 2021 75.4 60.6 97.9 May 2021 75.1 61.2 97.9 April 2021 74.6 60.7 97.1 March 2021 74.6 64.7 97.5 December 2020 74.1 60.5 96.8 September 2020 72.1 55.7 94.2 June 2020 68.7 52.2 89.1 reading of 52.2.  A reading above 50 generally indicates expansion.  The index readings for the months during the  most recent quarter, along with the revised indices for previous quarter ends, were as follows: This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for  the years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020.  For the comparison of the years ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, see the  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2020  Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table is included to aid in review of Applied’s statements of consolidated income. Sales in fiscal 2021 were $3.2 billion, which was $9.7 million or 0.3% below the prior year, with sales from  acquisitions adding $44.1 million or 1.4% and favorable foreign currency translation accounting for an increase of  $16.5 million or 0.5%.  There were 252.5 selling days in fiscal 2021 and 253.5 selling days in fiscal 2020.  Excluding  the impact of businesses acquired and foreign currency translation, sales were down $70.3 million or 2.2% during  the year, driven by a 1.8% decrease from operations and a 0.4% decrease due to one less sales day.  The decrease  from operations is due to weak demand across key end markets from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic,  although sales improved as the year progressed. The following table shows changes in sales by reportable segment. Sales of our Service Center Based Distribution segment, which operates primarily in MRO markets, decreased $42.4  million, or 1.9%.  Favorable foreign currency translation increased sales by $16.5 million or 0.7%.  Excluding the  impact of businesses acquired and the impact of foreign currency translation, sales decreased $58.9 million or 2.6%  during the year, driven by a 2.2% decrease from operations and a decrease of 0.4% due to one less sales day.  The  decrease from operations reflects weaker industrial end-market demand from the impact of the COVID-19  pandemic, although sales improved as the year progressed. Year ended June 30, Sales  (Decrease)  Increase Acquisitions Foreign  Currency Organic  Change Sales by Reportable Segment 2021 2020 Service Center Based Distribution $ 2,199.5 $ 2,241.9 $  (42.4) $  — $  16.5 $  (58.9)  Fluid Power & Flow Control 1,036.4   1,003.7   32.7   44.1  —  (11.4)  Total $ 3,235.9 $ 3,245.7 $  (9.7) $  44.1 $  16.5 $  (70.3) Amounts in millions Amount of change due to Net Sales  100.0 %  100.0 %  (0.3) % Gross Profit Margin  28.9 %  28.9 %  (0.2) % Selling, Distribution & Administrative Expense  21.0 %  22.1 %  (5.2) % Operating Income  6.3 %  2.7 %  130.9 % Net Income  4.5 %  0.7 %  502.1 % Sales of our Fluid Power & Flow Control segment increased $32.7 million or 3.3%.  Acquisitions within this segment,  primarily ACS and Gibson, increased sales $44.1 million or 4.4%.  Excluding the impact of businesses acquired, sales  decreased $11.4 million or 1.1%, driven by a 0.7% decrease from operations and by a decrease of 0.4% due to one  less sales day.  The decrease from operations is primarily due to ongoing soft demand across process-related end  markets, offset by stronger demand across technology, off-highway mobile, life sciences, and chemical end markets,  as well as automation-related sales. The following table shows changes in sales by geographical area.  Other countries includes Mexico, Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore. Sales in our U.S. operations decreased $36.5 million or 1.3%, with acquisitions adding $44.1 million or 1.6%.  Excluding the impact of businesses acquired, U.S. sales were down $80.6 million or 2.9%, driven by a decrease of  2.5% from operations and by a decrease of 0.4% due to one less sales days.  Sales from our Canadian operations  increased $6.8 million or 2.7%, while favorable foreign currency translation increased Canadian sales by $11.6  million or 4.7%.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Canadian sales were down $4.8 million or  2.0%, driven by a decrease of 1.6% from operations and by a decrease of 0.4% due to one less sales days.   Consolidated sales from our other country operations increased $20.0 million or 11.3% compared to the prior year.   Favorable foreign currency translation increased other country sales by $4.9 million or 2.7%.  Excluding the impact  of foreign currency translation, other country sales were up $15.1 million or 8.6% compared to the prior year, driven  by an increase of 9.2% from operations, primarily a $10.9 million increase in Australian sales due to increased  demand in the mining industry, offset by a decrease of 0.6% due to less sales days. The gross profit margin was 28.9% in both fiscal 2021 and 2020.   The following table shows the changes in selling, distribution, and administrative expense (SD&A). SD&A consists of associate compensation, benefits and other expenses associated with selling, purchasing,  warehousing, supply chain management, and marketing and distribution of the Company’s products, as well as  costs associated with a variety of administrative functions such as human resources, information technology,  treasury, accounting, insurance, legal, facility related expenses and expenses incurred in acquiring businesses.  SD&A  decreased $37.2 million or 5.2% during fiscal 2021 compared to the prior year, and as a percentage of sales  decreased to 21.0% in fiscal 2021 compared to 22.1% in fiscal 2020.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates  had the effect of increasing SD&A by $4.9 million or 0.7% compared to the prior year.  SD&A from businesses  acquired added $11.9 million or 1.7%, including $1.1 million of intangibles amortization related to acquisitions.  Excluding the impact of businesses acquired and the favorable impact from foreign currency translation, SD&A  decreased $54.0 million or 7.6% during fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020.  The Company incurred $0.4 million of  non-routine expenses related to severance and closed facilities during fiscal 2021 compared to $5.1 million non- routine expenses related to severance and facility consolidation during fiscal 2020.  Excluding the impact of  acquisitions and severance, total compensation decreased $14.1 million during fiscal 2021, primarily due to cost  reduction actions taken by the Company in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including headcount reductions,  temporary furloughs and pay reductions, and suspension of the 401(k) company match.  All of the temporary cost  reductions have been reinstated in the second half of fiscal 2021.  Also, excluding the impact of acquisitions, travel &  entertainment and fleet expenses decreased $12.2 million during 2021, primarily due to continued reduced travel  activity related to COVID-19.  In addition, bad debt expense decreased $7.5 million, primarily due to provisions  recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies primarily in the Service Center Based  Distribution segment, offset by strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the Year ended June 30, Sales  (Decrease)  Increase Acquisitions Foreign  Currency Organic  Change Sales by Geographic Area 2021 2020 United States $ 2,782.9 $ 2,819.4 $  (36.5) $  44.1 $  — $  (80.6)  Canada 255.4  248.6  6.8  —  11.6  (4.8)  Other countries 197.7  177.7  20.0  —  4.9  15.1  Total $ 3,235.9 $ 3,245.7 $  (9.7) $  44.1 $  16.5 $  (70.3) Amounts in millions Amount of change due to Year ended June 30, SD&A  Decrease Acquisitions Foreign  Currency Organic  Change 2021 2020 SD&A $  680.5 $  717.7 $  (37.2) $  11.9 $  4.9 $  (54.0) accounts receivable portfolio in fiscal 2021.  Further, excluding the impact of acquisitions, intangible amortization  expense decreased $8.3 million during fiscal 2021 primarily due to the intangible impairment recorded during the  year.  All other expenses within SD&A were down $7.2 million. During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, the Company determined that an impairment existed in two of its three  asset groups within the Service Center Based Distribution segment that have significant exposure to oil and gas end  markets as the asset groups' carrying values exceeded the sum of the undiscounted cash flows.  The fair values of  the long-lived assets were determined using the income approach, and the analyses resulted in the measurement of  an intangible asset impairment loss of $45.0 million, as the fair value of the intangible assets was determined to be  zero.  The analyses of these asset groups also resulted in a fixed asset impairment loss and leased asset impairment  loss of $2.0 million and $2.5 million, respectively, which were recorded in fiscal 2021.  Combined, the non-cash  impairment charges decreased net income by $37.8 million and earnings per share by $0.96 per share for fiscal  2021. As a result of the Company's annual goodwill impairment test in fiscal 2020, the Company recorded a $131.0  million non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to the Company's FCX operations in the Fluid Power & Flow  Control segment, primarily due to the overall decline in the industrial economy, specifically slower demand in FCX's  end markets. The non-cash goodwill impairment charge decreased net income by $118.8 million and earnings per  share by $3.04 per share for fiscal 2020. Operating income increased $116.5 million, or 130.9%, to $205.5 million during fiscal 2021 from $89.0 million  during fiscal 2020, and as a percentage of sales, increased to 6.3% from 2.7%, primarily as a result of the goodwill  impairment expense recorded during fiscal 2020 offset by the intangible impairment recorded in fiscal 2021. Operating income, before impairment charges, as a percentage of sales for the Service Center Based Distribution  segment increased to 10.2% in fiscal 2021 from 9.4% in fiscal 2020.  Operating income, before impairment  charges, as a percentage of sales for the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment increased to 11.8% in fiscal 2021  from 10.9% in fiscal 2020. Segment operating income is impacted by changes in the amounts and levels of certain supplier support benefits  and expenses allocated to the segments.  The expense allocations include corporate charges for working capital,  logistics support and other items and impact segment gross profit and operating expense. Other income, net, represents certain non-operating items of income and expense, and was $2.2 million of income  in fiscal 2021 compared to $2.8 million of income in fiscal 2020.  Current year income primarily consists of  unrealized gains on investments held by non-qualified deferred compensation trusts of $4.0 million and other  income of $0.3 million, offset by foreign currency transaction losses of $2.1 million.  Fiscal 2020 income consisted  primarily of unrealized gains on investments held by non-qualified deferred compensation trusts of $0.5 million and  foreign currency transaction gains of $2.5 million offset by other expenses of $0.2 million. The effective income tax rate was 18.2% for fiscal 2021 compared to 56.5% for fiscal 2020.  The decrease in the  effective tax rate is primarily due to the FCX goodwill impairment charge in the prior year, which increased the  effective tax rate by 31.4% in fiscal 2020. We expect our income tax rate for fiscal 2022 to be in the range of 22.0% to 23.0%. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for fiscal 2021 increased $120.7 million from the prior year.  Net income per share was $3.68 per share for fiscal 2021 compared to $0.62 per share for fiscal 2020.   At June 30, 2021, we had a total of 568 operating facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico,  Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore, versus 580 at June 30, 2020. The approximate number of Company employees was 5,900 at June 30, 2021 and 6,200 at June 30, 2020. Our primary source of capital is cash flow from operations, supplemented as necessary by bank borrowings or other  sources of debt.  At June 30, 2021 we had total debt obligations outstanding of $829.4 million compared to $935.3  million at June 30, 2020.  Management expects that our existing cash, cash equivalents, funds available under our  debt facilities, and cash provided from operations, will be sufficient to finance normal working capital needs in each  of the countries we operate in, payment of dividends, acquisitions, investments in properties, facilities and  equipment, debt service, and the purchase of additional Company common stock.  Management also believes that  additional long-term debt and line of credit financing could be obtained based on the Company’s credit standing  and financial strength. The Company’s working capital at June 30, 2021 was $768.9 million compared to $733.7 million at June 30, 2020.  The current ratio was 2.8 to 1 at June 30, 2021 and 2.7 to 1 at June 30, 2020.   The following table is included to aid in review of Applied’s statements of consolidated cash flows; all amounts  are in thousands. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2021 is driven by changes in working capital for  the year offset by increased operating results.  Changes in cash flows between years related to working capital were  driven by: Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2021 included $30.2 million used for the acquisitions of ACS and Gibson  and $15.9 million used for capital expenditures.  Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2020 included $37.2  million used for the acquisitions of Olympus and $20.1 million for capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities included $131.9 million and $49.6 million of long-term debt repayments in 2021  and 2020, respectively, offset by $26.0 million of cash borrowings from the trade receivable securitization facility in  2021 and $25.0 million of cash borrowings under a unsecured shelf facility agreement with Prudential Investment  Management in 2020.  Further uses of cash in 2021 were $50.7 million for dividend payments, $10.1 million used to  pay taxes for shares withheld, and $40.1 million used to repurchase 400,000 shares of treasury stock.  Further uses  of cash in 2020 were $48.9 million for dividend payments and $2.6 million used to pay taxes for shares withheld. The increase in dividends over the year is the result of regular increases in our dividend payout rates.  We paid  dividends of $1.30 and $1.26 per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 to be in the $18.0 million to $20.0 million range, primarily consisting  of capital associated with additional information technology equipment and infrastructure investments. The Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company’s stock.  These purchases may  be made in open market and negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending upon market conditions.    At June 30, 2021, we had authorization to purchase an additional 464,618 shares. The Company repurchased 400,000 shares in fiscal 2021 at an average price per share of $100.22.  In fiscal 2020 no  shares were repurchased and in 2019, we repurchased 192,082 shares of the Company’s common stock at an  average price per share of $58.10. In January 2018, the Company refinanced its existing credit facility and entered into a new five-year credit facility  with a group of banks expiring in January 2023.  This agreement provides for a $780.0 million unsecured term loan  and a $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility.  Fees on this facility range from 0.10% to 0.20% per year  based upon the Company's leverage ratio at each quarter end.  Borrowings under this agreement carry variable  interest rates tied to either LIBOR or prime at the Company's discretion.  The Company had no amount outstanding  under the revolver as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020.  Unused lines under this facility, net of outstanding  letters of credit of $0.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively, to secure certain insurance obligations, totaled $249.8  million and $248.1 million at June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively, and were available to fund future  acquisitions or other capital and operating requirements.  The interest rate on the term loan was 1.88% and 1.94%  as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively. In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the “AR Securitization Facility”)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  In March 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization Facility to  expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250.0 million and increased the drawn  fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit ratings  of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250.0 million of funding  available under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company’s  borrowing capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations’ trade accounts receivable.  The  Company uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively  reducing borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate  on the AR Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The  termination date of the AR Securitization is now in March 2024. At June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, the Company had borrowings outstanding under its unsecured shelf facility  agreement with Prudential Investment Management of $90.0 million and $170.0 million, respectively.  Fees on this  facility range from 0.25% to 1.25% per year based on the Company's leverage ratio at each quarter end.  The  "Series C" notes, which had an original principal amount of $120.0 million, carry a fixed interest rate of 3.19%.   During fiscal 2021, two principal payments of $40.0 million each were made on the "Series C" notes and the  remaining balance of $40.0 million is due in July 2022.  The "Series D" notes have a remaining principal amount of  $25.0 million, carry a fixed interest rate of 3.21%, and are due in October 2023. The "Series E" notes have a  principal amount of $25.0 million, carry a fixed interest rate of 3.08%, and are due in October 2024. The Company entered into an interest rate swap which mitigates variability in forecasted interest payments on  $420.0 million of the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable rate debt.  For more information, see  note 7, Derivatives, to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 under the caption “Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data.” The credit facility and the unsecured shelf facility contain restrictive covenants regarding liquidity, net worth, financial  ratios, and other covenants.  At June 30, 2021, the most restrictive of these covenants required that the Company  have net indebtedness less than 3.75 times consolidated income before interest, taxes, depreciation and  amortization (as defined).  At June 30, 2021, the Company's net indebtedness was less than 2.5 times consolidated  income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined).  The Company was in compliance with all  financial covenants at June 30, 2021. Accounts receivable are reported at net realizable value and consist of trade receivables from customers.   Management monitors accounts receivable by reviewing Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) and the aging of receivables  for each of the Company's locations. On a consolidated basis, DSO was 51.9 at June 30, 2021 versus 55.9 at June 30, 2020.  Approximately 3.0% of our  accounts receivable balances are more than 90 days past due at June 30, 2021 compared to 4.6% at June 30, 2020.  On an overall basis, our provision for losses from uncollected receivables represents 0.20% of our sales for the year  ended June 30, 2021, compared to 0.43% of sales for the year ended June 30, 2020.  The decrease primarily relates  to strong cash collections and an improvement in the overall credit profile of the accounts receivable portfolio in the  current year, compared to provisions recorded in the prior year for customer credit deterioration and bankruptcies  primarily in the U.S. and Mexican operations of the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  Historically, this  percentage is around 0.10% to 0.15%.  Management believes the overall receivables aging and provision for losses  on uncollected receivables are at reasonable levels. Inventories are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average cost method for  foreign inventories.  Management uses an inventory turnover ratio to monitor and evaluate inventory.  Management  calculates this ratio on an annual as well as a quarterly basis and uses inventory valued at average costs.  The  annualized inventory turnover (using average costs) for the year ended June 30, 2021 was 4.3 versus 3.8 for the year  ended June 30, 2020.  We believe our inventory turnover ratio in fiscal 2022 will be slightly better than our fiscal  2021 levels. Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 Provision for losses on accounts receivable $ 6,540  $ 14,055  Provision as a % of net sales  0.20 %  0.43 % June 30, 2021 2020 Accounts receivable, gross $ 532,777  $ 463,659  Allowance for doubtful accounts 16,455  13,661  Accounts receivable, net $ 516,322  $ 449,998  Allowance for doubtful accounts, % of gross receivables  3.1 %  2.9 % (1) Amounts represent estimated contractual interest payments on outstanding long-term debt obligations and net payments under the terms of the interest rate swap.  Rates in effect as of June 30, 2021 are used for variable rate debt. Purchase orders for inventory and other goods and services are not included in our estimates as we are unable to  aggregate the amount of such purchase orders that represent enforceable and legally binding agreements specifying  all significant terms.  The previous table includes the gross liability for unrecognized income tax benefits including  interest and penalties in the “Other” column as the Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate regarding the  timing of cash settlements, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally  accepted in the United States of America requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates at a  specific point in time that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and disclosed in the  accompanying notes.  The Business and Accounting Policies note to the consolidated financial statements describes  the significant accounting policies and methods used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements.   Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the net carrying value of trade accounts receivable,  inventories, recording self-insurance liabilities and other accrued liabilities.  Estimates are also used in establishing  opening balances in relation to purchase accounting.  Actual results could differ from these estimates.  The following  critical accounting policies are impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions and estimates used in the  preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Inventories are valued at the average cost method, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories, and  the average cost method for foreign inventories.  We adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method for accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  Approximately 19.8% of our domestic inventory dollars relate to LIFO layers  added in the 1970s.  The excess of average cost over LIFO cost is $151.9 million as reflected in our consolidated  balance sheet at June 30, 2021.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following product groupings:  bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other products. LIFO layers and/or liquidations are determined consistently year-to-year.  See the Inventories note to the   consolidated financial statements in Item 8 under the caption "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,"  for further information. We evaluate the recoverability of our slow-moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  We estimate the  recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age, historic and current  demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future demand.  Our ability  to recover our cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such factors as general market  conditions, future customer demand and relationships with suppliers.  A significant portion of the products we hold  in inventory have long shelf lives and are not highly susceptible to obsolescence. As of June 30, 2021 and 2020, the Company's reserve for slow-moving or obsolete inventories was $43.5 million  and $42.9 million, respectively, recorded in inventories in the consolidated balance sheets. We evaluate the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, we estimate  an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial  estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of certain customers and industries estimated to be a greater credit risk,  trends within the entire customer pool and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.  While we have a  large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the industry segments  in which we operate could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the need to revise estimates for  bad debts.  Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident that collection will not occur. As of June 30, 2021 and 2020, our allowance for doubtful accounts was 3.1% and 2.9% of gross receivables,  respectively.  Our provision for losses on accounts receivable was $6.5 million, $14.1 million and $4.1 million in fiscal  2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between intangible assets and the net tangible assets of the  acquired business with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill.  Goodwill for acquired businesses is  accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities  assumed be recorded at the date of the acquisition at their respective estimated fair values.  The determination of  the value of the intangible assets acquired involves certain judgments and estimates.  These judgments can include,  but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future and the appropriate  weighted average cost of capital.  The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each  class of assets acquired, as well as the estimated life of each asset, can materially impact the net income of the  periods subsequent to the acquisition through depreciation and amortization, and in certain instances through  impairment charges, if the asset becomes impaired in the future.  As part of acquisition accounting, we recognize  acquired identifiable intangible assets such as customer relationships, vendor relationships, trade names, and non- competition agreements apart from goodwill.  Finite-lived identifiable intangibles are evaluated for impairment when  changes in conditions indicate carrying value may not be recoverable.  If circumstances require a finite-lived  intangible asset be tested for possible impairment, the Company first compares undiscounted cash flows expected to  be generated by the asset to the carrying value of the asset.  If the carrying value of the finite-lived intangible asset is  not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying value  exceeds its fair value determined through a discounted cash flow model. The Company has three asset groups that have significant exposure to oil and gas end markets.   Due to the  prolonged economic downturn in these end markets, the Company determined during the second quarter of fiscal  2021 that certain carrying values may not be recoverable.  The Company determined that an impairment existed in  two of the three asset groups as the asset groups' carrying values exceeded the sum of the undiscounted cash flows.  The fair values of the long-lived assets were then determined using the income approach, and the analyses resulted  in the measurement of an intangible asset impairment loss of $45.0 million, which was recorded in the second  quarter of fiscal 2021, as the fair value of the intangible assets was determined to be zero.  The income approach  employs the discounted cash flow method reflecting projected cash flows expected to be generated by market  participants and then adjusted for time value of money factors, and requires management to make significant  estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and  amortization (EBITDA), and discount rates.  Key assumptions (Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy) relate to pricing  trends, inventory costs, customer demand, and revenue growth.  A number of benchmarks from independent  industry and other economic publications were also used.  The analyses of these asset groups also resulted in a fixed  asset impairment loss and leased asset impairment loss of $2.0 million and $2.5 million, respectively, which were  recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2021.  Sustained significant softness in certain end market concentrations  could result in impairment of certain intangible assets in future periods. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually as of January 1, and whenever an event  occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting  unit is less than its carrying amount.  Events or circumstances that may result in an impairment review include  changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial  performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease  in share price.  Each year, the Company may elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is  more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If impairment is indicated in  the qualitative assessment, or, if management elects to initially perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill, the  impairment test uses a one-step approach.  The fair value of a reporting unit is compared with its carrying amount,  including goodwill.  If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit  is not impaired.  If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the  total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Goodwill on our consolidated financial statements relates to both the Service Center Based Distribution segment and  the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill  impairment assessment was performed as of January 1, 2021.  The Company concluded that seven (7) of the  reporting units’ fair values exceeded their carrying amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of  the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value  by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $309.0 million as of June 30, 2021. The Company had eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill impairment assessment was performed as  of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven (7) of the reporting units’ fair values exceeded their carrying  amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.  Specifically, the Canada reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 14%.  The carrying  value of the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in  goodwill impairment of $131.0 million.  The non-cash impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the  industrial economy, specifically slower demand in FCX's end markets, which led to reduced spending by customers  and reduced revenue expectations.  If the Company does not achieve forecasted sales growth and margin  improvements goodwill could be further impaired. The fair values of the reporting units in accordance with the goodwill impairment test were determined using the  income and market approaches.  The income approach employs the discounted cash flow method reflecting  projected cash flows expected to be generated by market participants and then adjusted for time value of money  factors, and requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future  revenues, operating margins, and discount rates.  The market approach utilizes an analysis of comparable publicly  traded companies and requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to the forecasts  of future revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) and multiples that are  applied to management’s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates. Changes in future results, assumptions, and estimates after the measurement date may lead to an outcome where  additional impairment charges would be required in future periods.  Specifically, actual results may vary from the  Company’s forecasts and such variations may be material and unfavorable, thereby triggering the need for future  impairment tests where the conclusions may differ in reflection of prevailing market conditions.  Further, continued  adverse market conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment if the Company determines that  the fair values of its reporting units have fallen below their carrying values. Deferred income taxes are recorded for estimated future tax effects of differences between the bases of assets and  liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes, giving consideration to enacted tax laws.  As of June 30,  2021, the Company recognized $12.9 million of net deferred tax liabilities.  Valuation allowances are provided  against deferred tax assets where it is considered more-likely-than-not that the Company will not realize the benefit  of such assets on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis.  The remaining net deferred tax asset is the amount  management believes is more-likely-than-not of being realized.  The realization of these deferred tax assets can be  impacted by changes to tax laws, statutory rates and future taxable income levels. This Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis, contains statements that are forward-looking  based on management’s current expectations about the future. Forward-looking statements are often identified by  qualifiers, such as “guidance”, “expect”, “believe”, “plan”, “intend”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would”,  “anticipate”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “may”, "optimistic" and derivative or similar words or expressions.  Similarly,  descriptions of objectives, strategies, plans, or goals are also forward-looking statements.  These statements may  discuss, among other things, expected growth, future sales, future cash flows, future capital expenditures, future  performance, and the anticipation and expectations of the Company and its management as to future occurrences  and trends.  The Company intends that the forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors established in  the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules,  regulations and releases. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking  statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors, many of which are outside the  Company’s control.  Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking  statements, and the making of those statements should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any  other person that the results expressed in the statements will be achieved.  In addition, the Company assumes no  obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information or  events, or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Important risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: risks relating to the operations levels of our  customers and the economic factors that affect them; risks relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic;  changes in the prices for products and services relative to the cost of providing them; reduction in supplier inventory  purchase incentives; loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, changes in supplier distribution  programs, inability of suppliers to perform, and transportation disruptions; the cost of products and energy and  other operating costs; changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature and brands sold by  us; changes in customer procurement policies and practices; competitive pressures; our reliance on information  systems and risks relating to their proper functioning, the security of those systems, and the data stored in or  transmitted through them; the impact of economic conditions on the collectability of trade receivables; reduced  demand for our products in targeted markets due to reasons including consolidation in customer industries; our  ability to retain and attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and other skilled executives, managers and  professionals; our ability to identify and complete acquisitions, integrate them effectively, and realize their  anticipated benefits; the variability, timing and nature of new business opportunities including acquisitions, alliances,  customer relationships, and supplier authorizations; the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection  with acquisitions; our ability to access capital markets as needed on reasonable terms; disruption of operations at our  headquarters or distribution centers; risks and uncertainties associated with our foreign operations, including volatile  economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences, and currency exchange fluctuations; the  potential for goodwill and intangible asset impairment; changes in accounting policies and practices; our ability to  maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; organizational changes within the Company; risks related  to legal proceedings to which we are a party; potentially adverse government regulation, legislation, or policies, both  enacted and under consideration, including with respect to federal tax policy, international trade, data privacy and  security, and government contracting; and the occurrence of extraordinary events (including prolonged labor  disputes, power outages, telecommunication outages, terrorist acts, public health emergency, earthquakes, extreme  weather events, other natural disasters, fires, floods, and accidents).  Other factors and unanticipated events could  also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks can also change over time.   Further, the disclosure of a risk should not be interpreted to imply that the risk has not already materialized. We discuss certain of these matters and other risk factors more fully throughout our Form 10-K, as well as other of  our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Our market risk is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as changes in interest rates.   We occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use  derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. Because we operate throughout North America, Australia and New Zealand and approximately 14.0% of our fiscal  year 2021 net sales were generated outside the United States, foreign currency exchange rates can impact our  financial position, results of operations and competitive position.  The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are  translated into their U.S. dollar equivalents at end-of-period exchange rates for assets and liabilities, while income  and expenses are translated at average monthly exchange rates.  Translation gains and losses are components of  other comprehensive income as reported in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Transaction  gains and losses arising from fluctuations in currency exchange rates on transactions denominated in currencies  other than the functional currency are recognized in the statements of consolidated income as a component of other  income, net.  Applied does not currently hedge the net investments in our foreign operations. During the course of the fiscal year, the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand currency exchange rates  increased in relation to the U.S. dollar by 10.5%, 16.7%, 9.7% and 9.1%, respectively.  In the twelve months ended  June 30, 2021, we experienced net foreign currency translation gains totaling $24.4 million, which were included in  other comprehensive income.  We utilize a sensitivity analysis to measure the potential impact on earnings based on  a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates.  A 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign  currencies that affect the Company from the levels experienced during the year ended June 30, 2021 would have  resulted in a $1.7 million decrease in net income for the year ended June 30, 2021. Our primary exposure to interest rate risk results from our outstanding debt obligations with variable interest rates.  The levels of fees and interest charged on our various debt facilities are based upon leverage levels and market  interest rates. The Company uses interest rate swap instruments to mitigate variability in forcasted interest rates. Our variable interest rate debt facilities outstanding include our five-year credit facility, which provides for a revolving  credit facility with a capacity of up to $250.0 million in borrowings with no balance outstanding at June 30, 2021, a  $780.0 million term loan, of which $550.3 million was outstanding at June 30, 2021, and a $188.3 million trade  receivable securitization facility, all of which was outstanding at June 30, 2021.  In January 2019, the Company  entered into an interest rate swap on $463.0 million of the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable  rate debt.  The notional amount of the interest rate swap was $420.0 million as of June 30, 2021.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  Fixed interest rate debt facilities include $90.0 million  outstanding under our unsecured shelf facility agreement, as well as $0.8 million of assumed debt from the purchase  of our headquarters facility.  We had total average variable interest rate bank borrowings of $739.3 million during  fiscal 2021.  The impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the interest rates on our average variable interest rate  bank borrowings (not considering the impact of our interest rate swap) would have resulted in a $7.4 million  increase in interest expense.  Due to the interest rate swap, the impact of a hypothetical 1.0% increase in the  variable interest rate would have reduced net cash interest paid by $4.2 million.  Changes in market interest rates  would also impact interest rates on these facilities. For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of  “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and notes 6 and  7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  That information is also incorporated here by reference.  In  addition, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional risk factors relating to our business. ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the “Company”) as of June 30, 2021 and 2020, the related statements of consolidated income, comprehensive  income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2021, and the  related notes and the schedule listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the "financial statements").  In  our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of  June 30, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period  ended June 30, 2021, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2021, based on the criteria  established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's  internal control over financial reporting. Effective July 1, 2019, the Company adopted the new accounting standard related to leases using the optional  transition method, which required application of the new guidance to only those leases that existed at the date of  adoption. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an  opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material  misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.  Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to  those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the  financial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made  by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.  We believe that our audits  provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial  statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to  accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,  subjective, or complex judgments.  The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on  the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing  a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. The Company’s evaluation of goodwill for impairment involves the comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit  to its carrying value.  The Company determines the fair value of its reporting units using the income and market  approaches.  The determination of the fair value using the income approach requires management to make significant  estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and  amortization (EBITDA), and discount rates.  The determination of the fair value using the market approach requires  management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to the forecasts of future revenues, EBITDA and  multiples that are applied to management’s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates.  The goodwill balance was $560.1 million as of June 30, 2021, of which $309.0 million related to the FCX reporting unit.  The fair value of the FCX  reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by 14% as of the measurement date and, therefore, no impairment was  recognized. Given the nature of the FCX reporting unit’s operations, the sensitivity of the business to changes in the economy, the  reporting unit’s historical performance as compared to projections, and the difference between its fair value and the  carrying value, auditing management’s judgments regarding forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA, as well as  selection of the discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management’s forecasted revenues and EBITDA  estimates for the FCX reporting unit, required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort,  including the need to involve our fair value specialists. Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA (“forecasts”), and the selection of the  discount rate and selection of multiples applied to management’s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates (“market  multiples”) for the FCX reporting unit included the following, among others: • We tested the effectiveness of controls over management’s goodwill impairment evaluation, such as controls related to management’s forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used. • We evaluated management’s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management’s historical forecasts. • We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, and (3) forecasted information included in industry reports for the various industries the reporting unit operates within. • With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the discount rate, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management. • With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the market multiples by evaluating the selected comparable publicly traded companies and the adjustments made for differences in growth prospects and risk profiles between the reporting unit and the comparable publicly traded companies.  We tested the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations. • With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the fair value of the reporting unit based upon reconciling the fair value of the reporting unit to the market capitalization of the Company. We have served as the Company's auditor since 1966. See notes to consolidated financial statements. Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 2019 Net sales $ 3,235,919 $ 3,245,652 $ 3,472,739  Cost of sales 2,300,395   2,307,916   2,465,116  Gross profit 935,524  937,736  1,007,623 Operating income 205,454  88,989  233,788  Interest expense 30,807  37,264  40,788  Interest income (215)  (729) (600) Other income, net (2,200)  (2,782)  (881) Income before income taxes 177,062  55,236  194,481  Income tax expense 32,305  31,194  50,488  Net income $  144,757 $  24,042 $  143,993  Net income per share — basic $  3.73 $  0.62 $  3.72  Net income per share — diluted $  3.68 $  0.62 $  3.68 See notes to consolidated financial statements. See notes to consolidated financial statements. See notes to consolidated financial statements. See notes to consolidated financial statements. Balance at June 30, 2021 38,516 $ 10,000 $ 177,014 $ 1,294,413 $ (455,789) $  (93,092) $  932,546 Balance at June 30, 2020 38,710  10,000  176,492  1,200,570  (414,090)  (129,430)  843,542  Net income 144,757  144,757  Other comprehensive income (loss) 36,338  36,338  Cash dividends — $1.30 per share (50,992)  (50,992)  Purchases of common stock for treasury (400)  (40,089)  (40,089)  Treasury shares issued for: Balance at June 30, 2018 38,703 $ 10,000 $ 169,383 $ 1,129,678 $ (403,875) $  (90,223) $  814,963  Net income 143,993  143,993 Cash dividends — $1.22 per share (47,621)  (47,621) Cash dividends — $1.26 per share (49,305)  (49,305) Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company” or “Applied”) is a leading value-added  distributor and technical solutions provider of industrial motion, fluid power, flow control, automation technologies,  and related maintenance supplies.  Our leading brands, specialized services, and comprehensive knowledge serve  MRO (Maintenance, Repair & Operations) and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) end users in virtually all  industrial markets through our multi-channel capabilities that provide choice, convenience, and expertise.  Although  the Company does not generally manufacture the products it sells, it does assemble and repair certain products and  systems. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and its  subsidiaries.  Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The financial statements of the Company’s Canadian, Mexican, Australian and New Zealand subsidiaries are  measured using local currencies as their functional currencies.  Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at  current exchange rates, while income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates.  Translation gains and  losses are reported in other comprehensive loss in the statements of consolidated comprehensive income.  Gains and  losses resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are included in the statements of consolidated  income as a component of other income, net. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United  States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of  assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the  reported amount of revenues and expenses during the period.  Actual results may differ from the estimates and  assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. The Company considers all short-term, highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date  of purchase to be cash equivalents.  Cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. The primary marketable security investments of the Company include money market and mutual funds held in a  rabbi trust for a non-qualified deferred compensation plan.  These are included in other assets in the consolidated  balance sheets, are classified as trading securities, and are reported at fair value based on quoted market prices.   Changes in the fair value of the investments during the period are recorded in other income, net in the statements  of consolidated income. The Company has a broad customer base representing many diverse industries across North America, Australia, New  Zealand, and Singapore.  As such, the Company does not believe that a significant concentration of credit risk exists  in its accounts receivable.  The Company’s cash and cash equivalents consist of deposits with commercial banks and  regulated non-bank subsidiaries.  While the Company monitors the creditworthiness of these institutions, a crisis in  the financial systems could limit access to funds and/or result in the loss of principal.  The terms of these deposits  and investments provide that all monies are available to the Company upon demand. Accounts receivable are stated at their estimated net realizable value and consist of amounts billed or billable and  currently due from customers.  The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which reflects  management’s best estimate of probable losses based on an analysis of customer accounts, known troubled  accounts, historical experience with write-offs, and other currently available evidence. The Company evaluates the collectibility of trade accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.  Initially, the  Company estimates an allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net sales based on historical bad debt experience.  This initial estimate is adjusted based on recent trends of customers and industries estimated to be  greater credit risks, trends within the entire customer pool, and changes in the overall aging of accounts receivable.   Accounts are written off against the allowance when it becomes evident collection will not occur.  While the  Company has a large customer base that is geographically dispersed, a general economic downturn in any of the  industry segments in which the Company operates could result in higher than expected defaults, and therefore, the  need to revise estimates for bad debts.  The allowance for doubtful accounts was $16,455 and $13,661 at June 30,  2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively. Inventories are valued at average cost, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for U.S. inventories and the average  cost method for foreign inventories.  The Company adopted the link chain dollar value LIFO method of accounting  for U.S. inventories in fiscal 1974.  At June 30, 2021, approximately 19.8% of the Company’s domestic inventory  dollars relate to LIFO layers added in the 1970s.  The Company maintains five LIFO pools based on the following  product groupings: bearings, power transmission products, rubber products, fluid power products and other  products.  LIFO layers and/or liquidations are determined consistently year-to-year. The Company evaluates the recoverability of its slow moving and inactive inventories at least quarterly.  The  Company estimates the recoverable cost of such inventory by product type while considering factors such as its age,  historic and current demand trends, the physical condition of the inventory, as well as assumptions regarding future  demand.  The Company’s ability to recover its cost for slow moving or obsolete inventory can be affected by such  factors as general market conditions, future customer demand, and relationships with suppliers.  Historically, the  Company’s inventories have demonstrated long shelf lives, are not highly susceptible to obsolescence, and, in certain  instances, can be eligible for return under supplier return programs. The Company enters into agreements with certain suppliers providing inventory purchase incentives.  The Company’s  inventory purchase incentive arrangements are unique to each supplier and are generally annual programs ending at  either the Company’s fiscal year end or the supplier’s year end; however, program length and ending dates can vary.   Incentives are received in the form of cash or credits against purchases upon attainment of specified purchase  volumes and are received either monthly, quarterly or annually.  The incentives are generally a specified percentage  of the Company’s net purchases based upon achieving specific purchasing volume levels.  These percentages can  increase or decrease based on changes in the volume of purchases.  The Company accrues for the receipt of these  inventory purchase incentives based upon cumulative purchases of inventory.  The percentage level utilized is based  upon the estimated total volume of purchases expected during the life of the program.  Supplier programs are  analyzed each quarter to determine the appropriateness of the amount of purchase incentives accrued.  Upon  program completion, differences between estimates and actual incentives subsequently received have not been  material.  Benefits under these supplier purchasing programs are recognized under the Company’s inventory  accounting methods as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventories representing these purchases are recorded  as cost of sales.  Accrued incentives expected to be settled as a credit against future purchases are reported on the  consolidated balance sheets as an offset to amounts due to the related supplier. Property and equipment are recorded at cost.  Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the  estimated useful lives of the assets and is included in selling, distribution and administrative expense in the  accompanying statements of consolidated income.  Buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements  are depreciated over ten to thirty years or the life of the lease if a shorter period, and equipment is depreciated over  three to ten years.  The Company capitalizes internal use software development costs in accordance with guidance  on accounting for costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use.  Amortization of software  begins when it is ready for its intended use, and is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of  the software, generally not to exceed twelve years.  Capitalized software and hardware costs are classified as  property on the consolidated balance sheets.  The carrying values of property and equipment are reviewed for  impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset group's recorded value cannot be  recovered from undiscounted future cash flows.  Impairment losses, if any, would be measured based upon the  difference between the carrying amount of an asset group and its fair value. Goodwill is recognized as the excess cost of an acquired entity over the net amount assigned to assets acquired and  liabilities assumed.  Goodwill is not amortized.  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually as of January 1 or  whenever changes in conditions indicate an evaluation should be completed.  These conditions could include a  significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or  disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit.  The Company utilizes the income and market approaches to  determine the fair value of reporting units.  Evaluating impairment requires significant judgment by management,  including estimated future operating results, estimated future cash flows, the long-term rate of growth of the  business, and determination of an appropriate discount rate.  While the Company uses available information to  prepare the estimates and evaluations, actual results could differ significantly. The Company recognizes acquired identifiable intangible assets such as customer relationships, trade names, vendor  relationships, and non-competition agreements apart from goodwill.  Customer relationship identifiable intangibles  are amortized using the sum-of-the-years-digits method or the expected cash flow method over estimated useful  lives consistent with assumptions used in the determination of their value.  Amortization of all other finite-lived  identifiable intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated period of benefit.   Amortization of identifiable intangible assets is included in selling, distribution and administrative expense in the  accompanying statements of consolidated income.  Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for  impairment when changes in conditions indicate carrying value may not be recoverable.  If circumstances require a  finite-lived intangible asset be tested for possible impairment, the Company first compares undiscounted cash flows  expected to be generated by the asset to the carrying value of the asset.  If the carrying value of the finite-lived  intangible asset is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, impairment is recognized to the extent that  the carrying value exceeds its fair value determined through a discounted cash flow model.  Identifiable intangible  assets with indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or whenever changes in conditions  indicate an evaluation should be completed.  The Company does not currently have any indefinite-lived identifiable  intangible assets. The Company maintains business insurance programs with significant self-insured retention covering workers’  compensation, business, automobile, general product liability and other claims.  The Company accrues estimated  losses including those incurred but not reported using actuarial calculations, models and assumptions based on  historical loss experience.  The Company also maintains a self-insured health benefits plan which provides medical  benefits to U.S. based employees electing coverage under the plan.  The Company estimates its reserve for all unpaid  medical claims, including those incurred but not reported, based on historical experience, adjusted as necessary  based upon management’s reasoned judgment. The Company primarily sells purchased products distributed through its network of service centers and recognizes  revenue at a point in time when control of the product transfers to the customer, typically upon shipment from an  Applied facility or directly from a supplier.  For products that ship directly from suppliers to customers, Applied  generally acts as the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue on a gross basis.  Revenue recognized over  time is not significant.  Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration expected to be received in exchange for  the products and services provided, net of allowances for product returns, variable consideration, and any taxes  collected from customers that will be remitted to governmental authorities.  Shipping and handling costs are  recognized in net sales when they are billed to the customer.  The Company has elected to account for shipping and  handling activities as fulfillment costs.  There are no significant costs associated with obtaining customer contracts. Payment terms with customers vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered.  The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing  components based on the expectation that the period between when the Company transfers a promised good or  service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.  Arrangements  with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant. The Company’s products are generally sold with a right of return and may include variable consideration in the form  of incentives, discounts, credits or rebates.  Product returns are estimated based on historical return rates.  The  returns reserve was $9,772 and $9,883 at June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively.  The Company estimates and recognizes variable consideration based on historical experience to determine the  expected amount to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services  to a customer.  The Company records variable consideration as an adjustment to the transaction price in the period it is incurred.  The realization of variable consideration occurs within a short period of time from product delivery;  therefore, the time value of money effect is not significant. The Company records freight payments to third parties in cost of sales and internal delivery costs in selling,  distribution and administrative expense in the accompanying statements of consolidated income.  Internal delivery  costs in selling, distribution and administrative expense were approximately $15,970, $19,620 and $24,090 for the  fiscal years ended June 30, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Income taxes are determined based upon income and expenses recorded for financial reporting purposes.  Deferred  income taxes are recorded for estimated future tax effects of differences between the bases of assets and liabilities  for financial reporting and income tax purposes, giving consideration to enacted tax laws.  Uncertain tax positions  meeting a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are recognized in accordance with Accounting Standards  Codification (ASC) Topic 740 - Income Taxes.  The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to  unrecognized income tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. Share-based compensation represents the cost related to share-based awards granted to employees under the 2019  Long-Term Performance Plan, the 2015 Long-Term Performance Plan, the 2011 Long-Term Performance Plan, or the  2007 Long-Term Performance Plan.  The Company measures share-based compensation cost at the grant date,  based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost over the requisite service period.  Non- qualified stock appreciation rights (SARs) and stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing  market price of the Company’s common stock at the date of grant and the fair values are determined using a Black- Scholes option pricing model, which incorporates assumptions regarding the expected volatility, the expected option  life, the risk-free interest rate and the expected dividend yield.  SARs and stock option awards generally vest over  four years of continuous service and have ten-year contractual terms.  The fair value of restricted stock awards,  restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance shares are based on the closing market price of Company common  stock on the grant date. Shares of common stock repurchased by the Company are recorded at cost as treasury shares and result in a  reduction of shareholders’ equity in the consolidated balance sheets.  The Company uses the weighted-average cost  method for determining the cost of shares reissued.  The difference between the cost of the shares and the  reissuance price is added to or deducted from additional paid-in capital. The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.  The accounting for changes in the fair value  of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative, whether the Company has elected to designate a  derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting, and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied  the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting.  Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure  to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest  rate risk, are considered fair value hedges.  Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to  variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.  Derivatives may also be designated as hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign  operation.  Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the  hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are  attributable to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted transactions in a  cash flow hedge.  The Company may enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain  risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting. In accordance with the FASB’s fair value measurement guidance, the Company made an accounting policy election  to measure the credit risk of its derivative financial instruments that are subject to master netting agreements on a  net basis by counterparty portfolio. Substantially all U.S. employees participate in the Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Retirement Savings Plan.   Participants may elect 401(k) contributions of up to 50% of their compensation, subject to Internal Revenue Code  maximums.  The Company partially matches 401(k) contributions by participants.  The Company’s expense for  matching of employees’ 401(k) contributions was $3,945, $5,959 and $7,711 during 2021, 2020 and 2019,  respectively. The Company has deferred compensation plans that enable certain employees of the Company to defer receipt of a  portion of their compensation.  Assets held in these rabbi trusts consist of investments in money market and mutual  funds and Company common stock. The Company has determined that the related disclosures under ASC Topic 715 - Compensation, Retirement  Benefits, for these post-employment benefit plans are not material to the consolidated financial statements. The Company leases facilities for certain service centers, warehouses, distribution centers and office space.  The  Company also leases office equipment and vehicles.  All leases are classified as operating.  The Company’s leases  expire at various dates through 2031, with terms ranging from 1 year to 15 years.  Many of the Company’s real  estate leases contain renewal provisions to extend lease terms up to 5 years. The exercise of renewal options is solely  at the Company’s discretion.  The Company’s lease agreements do not contain material variable lease payments,  residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants.  The Company does not recognize right-of-use assets or lease  liabilities for short-term leases with initial terms of 12 months or less.  Leased vehicles comprise the majority of the  Company’s short-term leases.  All other leases are recorded on the balance sheet with right-of-use assets  representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities representing lease payment  obligations.  The Company’s leases do not provide implicit rates; therefore the Company uses its incremental  borrowing rate as the discount rate for measuring lease liabilities.  Non-lease components are accounted for  separately from lease components.  The Company’s operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis  over the lease term and is recorded in selling, distribution and administrative expense on the statements of  consolidated income. The Company has a non-qualified pension plan to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain officers.   Benefits are payable and determinable at retirement based upon a percentage of the participant’s historical  compensation.  The Executive Organization and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors froze  participant benefits (credited service and final average earnings) and entry into the Supplemental Executive  Retirement Benefits Plan (SERP) effective December 31, 2011.  The Company recorded net periodic benefit costs  associated with the SERP of $401, $317, and $414 in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively.  The Company  expects to make payments of approximately $800 under the SERP in fiscal 2022 and 2023, and approximately  $200 in fiscal 2024. In fiscal 2012, the Company adopted the Key Executive Restoration Plan (KERP), a funded, non-qualified  deferred compensation plan, to replace the SERP.  The Company recorded $334, $189, and $400 of expense  associated with this plan in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. The Company has a qualified defined benefit retirement plan that provides benefits to certain hourly employees  at retirement.  These employees did not participate in the Retirement Savings Plan.  The benefits are based on  length of service and date of retirement.  The plan accruals were frozen as of April 16, 2018, and employees are  permitted to participate in the Retirement Savings Plan, following that date.  The Company recorded net  periodic cost (benefits) associated with this plan of $46, $(116), and $(34) in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019,  respectively The Company provides health care benefits, through third-party policies, to eligible retired employees who pay a  specified monthly premium.  Premium payments are based upon current insurance rates for the type of coverage  provided and are adjusted annually.  Certain monthly health care premium payments are partially subsidized by  the Company.  Additionally, in conjunction with a fiscal 1998 acquisition, the Company assumed the obligation  for a post-retirement medical benefit plan which provides health care benefits to eligible retired employees at no  cost to the individual.  The Company recorded net periodic benefits associated with these plans of $161, $257,  and $418 in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Accounting for current expected credit losses In June 2016, the FASB issued its final standard on measurement of credit losses on financial instruments.  This  standard, issued as ASU 2016-13, requires that an entity measure impairment of certain financial instruments,  including trade receivables, based on expected losses rather than incurred losses.  This update is effective for annual  and interim financial statement periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for  financial statement periods beginning after December 15, 2018.  In November 2018, April 2019, May 2019,  November 2019, and February 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2018-19, ASU 2019-04, ASU 2019-05, ASU 2019-11 and  ASU 2020-02, respectively, which clarify the guidance in ASU 2016-13.  The Company adopted the new guidance in  the first quarter of fiscal 2021.  The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's  financial statements or related disclosures. In December 2019, the FASB issued its final standard on simplifying the accounting for income taxes.  This standard,  issued as ASU 2019-12, makes a number of changes meant to add or clarify guidance on accounting for income  taxes.  This update is effective for annual and interim financial statement periods beginning after December 15,  2020, with early adoption permitted in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been filed.   The Company has determined that this pronouncement will not have a material impact on its financial statements  and related disclosures. The following tables present the Company's net sales by reportable segment and by geographic areas based on the  location of the facility shipping the product for the years ended June 30, 2021, 2020 and 2019.  Other countries  consist of Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore. Service Center  Based  Distribution Fluid Power &  Flow Control Total General Industry  35.8 %  40.0 %  37.2 % Industrial Machinery  9.8 %  26.8 %  15.2 % Food  13.5 %  2.9 %  10.1 % Metals  10.5 %  6.8 %  9.3 % Forest Products  10.7 %  2.9 %  8.2 % Chem/Petrochem  3.3 %  13.6 %  6.6 % Cement & Aggregate  7.9 %  1.1 %  5.7 % Transportation  4.6 %  4.8 %  4.7 % Oil & Gas  3.9 %  1.1 %  3.0 % Total  100.0 %  100.0 %  100.0 % General Industry  33.7 %  43.0 %  36.3 % Industrial Machinery  10.4 %  21.8 %  13.8 % Food  10.6 %  2.7 %  8.3 % Metals  12.6 %  9.4 %  11.6 % Forest Products  8.0 %  3.1 %  6.6 % Chem/Petrochem  3.1 %  13.8 %  6.3 % Cement & Aggregate  6.7 %  1.0 %  5.0 % Transportation  4.8 %  3.1 %  4.3 % Oil & Gas  10.1 %  2.1 %  7.8 % Total  100.0 %  100.0 %  100.0 % Service Center  Based  Distribution Fluid Power &  Flow Control Total Power Transmission  37.3 %  7.5 %  27.8 % Fluid Power  13.2 %  38.0 %  21.2 % Bearings, Linear & Seals  29.0 %  0.4 %  19.8 % General Maintenance; Hose Products  20.5 %  16.9 %  19.3 % Specialty Flow Control  — %  37.2 %  11.9 % Total  100.0 %  100.0 %  100.0 % Service Center  Based  Distribution Fluid Power &  Flow Control Total General Industry  35.0 %  41.2 %  36.8 % Industrial Machinery  9.7 %  24.4 %  14.3 % Food  12.2 %  3.1 %  9.4 % Metals  11.1 %  7.2 %  9.9 % Forest Products  9.3 %  3.7 %  7.6 % Chem/Petrochem  3.3 %  13.4 %  6.4 % Cement & Aggregate  7.3 %  1.0 %  5.4 % Transportation  4.6 %  4.4 %  4.5 % Oil & Gas  7.5 %  1.6 %  5.7 % Total  100.0 %  100.0 %  100.0 % Fiscal 2021 Acquisitions Power Transmission  33.9 %  1.6 %  24.4 % Fluid Power  13.5 %  39.4 %  21.1 % Bearings, Linear & Seals  27.5 %  0.3 %  19.5 % General Maintenance; Hose Products  25.1 %  5.3 %  19.3 % Specialty Flow Control  — %  53.4 %  15.7 % Total  100.0 %  100.0 %  100.0 % June 30, 2021 June 30, 2020 $ Change % Change Contract assets $  15,178 $  8,435 $  6,743   79.9 % Service Center  Based  Distribution Fluid Power &  Flow Control Total Power Transmission  35.4 %  9.5 %  27.4 % Fluid Power  13.4 %  39.0 %  21.3 % Bearings, Linear & Seals  26.6 %  0.3 %  18.5 % General Maintenance; Hose Products  24.6 %  11.7 %  20.6 % Specialty Flow Control  — %  39.5 %  12.2 % Total  100.0 %  100.0 %  100.0 % The Company’s contract assets consist of un-billed amounts resulting from contracts for which revenue is recognized  over time using the cost-to-cost method, and for which revenue recognized exceeds the amount billed to the  customer. The difference between the opening and closing balances of the Company's contract assets primarily results from  the timing difference between the Company's performance and when the customer is billed. The operating results of all acquired entities are included within the consolidated operating results of the Company  from the date of each respective acquisition. On December 31, 2020, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Gibson Engineering (Gibson), a  Norwood, Massachusetts provider of automation products, services, and engineered solutions focused on machine  vision, motion control, mobile and collaborative robotic solutions, intelligent sensors, and other related equipment.   Gibson is included in the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.  The purchase price for the acquisition was $15,450,  net tangible assets acquired were $1,030, and intangible assets including goodwill were $14,420 based upon  preliminary estimated fair values at the acquisition date, which are subject to adjustment.  The purchase price  includes $1,938 of acquisition holdback payments, which are included in other current liabilities and other liabilities  on the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2021, and which will be paid on the first and second anniversaries  of the acquisition date with interest at a fixed rate of 1.0% per annum.  The Company funded this acquisition using  available cash.  The acquisition price and the results of operations for the acquired entity are not material in relation  to the Company's consolidated financial statements. On October 5, 2020, the Company acquired substantially all of the net assets of Advanced Control Solutions (ACS),  which operates four locations in Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama.  ACS is a provider of automation products,  services, and engineered solutions focused on machine vision equipment and software, mobile and collaborative  robotic solutions, intelligent sensors, logic controllers, and other related equipment.  ACS is included in the Fluid  Power & Flow Control segment.  The purchase price for the acquisition was $17,867, net tangible assets acquired  were $1,210, and intangible assets including goodwill were $16,657 based upon estimated fair values at the  acquisition date.  The Company funded this acquisition using available cash.  The acquisition price and the results of  operations for the acquired entity are not material in relation to the Company's consolidated financial statements. On August 21, 2019, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Olympus Controls (Olympus), a Portland, Oregon automation solutions provider - including design, assembly, integration, and distribution - of motion control, machine vision, and robotic technologies.   Olympus is included in the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment.   The purchase price for the acquisition was $36,642, net tangible assets acquired were $9,540, and intangible assets including goodwill was $27,102 based upon estimated fair values at the acquisition date.   The Company funded this acquisition using available cash. The acquisition price and the results of operations for the acquired entity are not material in relation to the Company's consolidated financial statements. On March 4, 2019, the Company acquired substantially all of the net assets of MilRoc Distribution (MilRoc) and  Woodward Steel (Woodward).  MilRoc is an Oklahoma based distributor of oilfield specific products, namely pumps  and valves, as well as equipment repair services and industrial parts to the oil & gas industry.  Woodward is an  Oklahoma based steel supplier to the oil & gas and agriculture industries.  MilRoc and Woodward are both included  in the Service Center Based Distribution segment.  The purchase price for the acquisition was $35,000, net tangible  assets acquired were $17,788, and intangible assets including goodwill was $17,212 based upon estimated fair  values at the acquisition date.  The purchase price includes $4,375 of acquisition holdback payments, of which  $1,244 and $1,666 were paid during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The remaining balance of $1,465 is  included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2021, and which will be paid on  the third anniversary of the acquisition date with interest at a fixed rate of 2.0% per annum.  The Company funded  this acquisition using available cash.  The acquisition price and the results of operations for the acquired entity are  not material in relation to the Company's consolidated financial statements. On November 2, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the net assets of Fluid Power Sales, Inc. (FPS), a  Baldwinsville, New York based manufacturer and distributor of fluid power components, specializing in the  engineering and fabrication of manifolds and power units.  FPS is included in the Fluid Power & Flow Control  segment.  The purchase price for the acquisition was $8,066, net tangible assets acquired were $4,151, and  goodwill was $3,915 based upon estimated fair values at the acquisition date.  The purchase price included $1,200  of acquisition holdback payments, of which $600 was paid during fiscal years 2021 and 2020.  The Company  funded this acquisition using available cash.  The acquisition price and the results of operations for the acquired  entity are not material in relation to the Company's consolidated financial statements. Acquisition holdback payments of approximately $2,569 and $969 will be made in fiscal 2022 and 2023,  respectively.  The related liabilities for these payments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets in other  current liabilities for the amounts due in fiscal year 2022 and other liabilities for the amounts due in fiscal year 2023. The overall impact of LIFO layer liquidations increased gross profit by $3,895, $1,990, and $112 in fiscal 2021, fiscal  2020, and fiscal 2019, respectively. June 30, 2021 2020 U.S. inventories at average cost $  387,456 $  431,866  Foreign inventories at average cost 126,945  112,795  514,401  544,661  Less: Excess of average cost over LIFO cost for U.S. inventories 151,854  155,511  Inventories on consolidated balance sheets $  362,547 $  389,150 The Company has eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill impairment assessment was performed as  of January 1, 2021.  The Company concluded that seven (7) of the reporting units’ fair values exceeded their carrying  amounts by at least 25% as of January 1, 2021.  The fair value of the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the  FCX Performance Inc. (FCX) operations, exceeded its carrying value by 14%.  The FCX reporting unit has a goodwill  balance of $309,012 as of June 30, 2021. The Company had eight (8) reporting units for which an annual goodwill impairment assessment was performed as  of January 1, 2020.  The Company concluded that seven (7) of the reporting units’ fair values exceeded their carrying  amounts by at least 10% as of January 1, 2020.  Specifically, the Canada reporting unit's fair value exceeded its  carrying value by 12%, and the Mexico reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by 14%.  The carrying  value of the final reporting unit, which is comprised of the FCX operations, exceeded the fair value, resulting in  goodwill impairment of $131,000.  The non-cash impairment charge was the result of the overall decline in the  industrial economy, specifically slower demand in FCX's end markets, which led to reduced spending by customers  and reduced revenue expectations. The fair values of the reporting units in accordance with the goodwill impairment test were determined using the  income and market approaches.  The income approach employs the discounted cash flow method reflecting  projected cash flows expected to be generated by market participants and then adjusted for time value of money  factors, and requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future  revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), and discount rates.   The market  approach utilizes an analysis of comparable publicly traded companies and requires management to make significant  estimates and assumptions related to the forecasts of future revenues, EBITDA, and multiples that are applied to  management’s forecasted revenues and EBITDA estimates. The techniques used in the Company's impairment test have incorporated a number of assumptions that the  Company believes to be reasonable and to reflect known market conditions at the measurement date.  Assumptions  in estimating future cash flows are subject to a degree of judgment.   The Company makes all efforts to forecast  future cash flows as accurately as possible with the information available at the measurement date.   The Company  evaluates the appropriateness of its assumptions and overall forecasts by comparing projected results of upcoming  years with actual results of preceding years.   Key assumptions (Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy) relate to pricing  trends, inventory costs, customer demand, and revenue growth. A number of benchmarks from independent  industry and other economic publications were also used. Changes in future results, assumptions, and estimates after the measurement date may lead to an outcome where  additional impairment charges would be required in future periods.  Specifically, actual results may vary from the  Company’s forecasts and such variations may be material and unfavorable, thereby triggering the need for future  impairment tests where the conclusions may differ in reflection of prevailing market conditions.  Further, continued  adverse market conditions could result in the recognition of additional impairment if the Company determines that  the fair values of its reporting units have fallen below their carrying values.   Certain events or circumstances that  could reasonably be expected to negatively affect the underlying key assumptions and ultimately impact the  estimated fair value of the Company’s reporting units may include such items as: (i) a decrease in expected future  cash flows, specifically, a decrease in sales volume driven by a prolonged weakness in customer demand or other  pressures adversely affecting our long-term sales trends; (ii) inability to achieve the sales from our strategic growth  initiatives. At June 30, 2021 and 2020, accumulated goodwill impairment losses subsequent to fiscal year 2002 totaled  $64,794 related to the Service Center Based Distribution segment and $167,605 related to the Fluid Power & Flow  Control segment. Amounts include the impact of foreign currency translation.  Fully amortized amounts are written off. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when changes in conditions indicate  carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company has three asset groups that have significant exposure to oil and gas end markets.  Due to the  prolonged economic downturn in these end markets, the Company determined during the second quarter of fiscal  2021 that certain carrying values may not be recoverable.  The Company determined that an impairment existed in  two of the three asset groups as the asset groups' carrying values exceeded the sum of the undiscounted cash flows.  The fair values of the long-lived assets were then determined using the income approach, and the analyses resulted  in the measurement of an intangible asset impairment loss of $45,033, which was recorded during the second  quarter of fiscal 2021, as the fair value of the intangible assets was determined to be zero.  The income approach  employs the discounted cash flow method reflecting projected cash flows expected to be generated by market  participants and then adjusted for time value of money factors, and requires management to make significant  estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenues, EBITDA, and discount rates.  Key assumptions  (Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy) relate to pricing trends, inventory costs, customer demand, and revenue growth.   A number of benchmarks from independent industry and other economic publications were also used.  The analyses  of these asset groups also resulted in a fixed asset impairment loss and leased asset impairment loss of $1,983 and  $2,512, respectively, which were recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2021.  Sustained significant softness in  certain end market concentrations could result in impairment of certain intangible assets in future periods. Amortization of identifiable intangibles totaled $34,365, $41,553 and $41,883 in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019,  respectively, and is included in selling, distribution and administrative expense in the statements of consolidated  income.  Future amortization expense based on the Company’s identifiable intangible assets as of June 30, 2021 is  estimated to be $31,400 for 2022, $29,500 for 2023, $25,800 for 2024, $23,600 for 2025 and $21,900 for 2026. Acquisition  Cost Allocation Weighted- Average Life Customer relationships $  10,390  20.0 Trade names 3,840  15.0 Other  1,090  5.9 Total Intangibles Acquired $  15,320  17.7 In January 2018, the Company refinanced its existing credit facility and entered into a new five-year credit facility  with a group of banks expiring in January 2023.  This agreement provides for a $780,000 unsecured term loan and a  $250,000 unsecured revolving credit facility.  Fees on this facility range from 0.10% to 0.20% per year based upon  the Company's leverage ratio at each quarter end.  Borrowings under this agreement carry variable interest rates tied  to either LIBOR or prime at the Company's discretion.  The Company had no amount outstanding under the revolver  as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020.  Unused lines under this facility, net of outstanding letters of credit of $200  and $1,873, respectively, to secure certain insurance obligations, totaled $249,800 and $248,127 at June 30, 2021  and June 30, 2020, respectively, and were available to fund future acquisitions or other capital and operating  requirements.  The interest rate on the term loan was 1.88% and 1.94% as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020,  respectively. Additionally, the Company had letters of credit outstanding with a separate bank, not associated with the revolving credit agreement, in the amount of $4,540 and $4,475 as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively, in order to secure certain insurance obligations. In August 2018, the Company established a trade receivable securitization facility (the “AR Securitization Facility”)  with a termination date of August 31, 2021.  On March 26, 2021, the Company amended the AR Securitization  Facility to expand the eligible receivables, which increased the maximum availability to $250,000 and increased the  drawn fees on the AR Securitization Facility to 0.98% per year.  Availability is further subject to changes in the credit  ratings of our customers, customer concentration levels or certain characteristics of the accounts receivable being  transferred and, therefore, at certain times, we may not be able to fully access the $250,000 of funding available  under the AR Securitization Facility.  The AR Securitization Facility effectively increases the Company’s borrowing  capacity by collateralizing a portion of the amount of the U.S. operations’ trade accounts receivable.  The Company  uses the proceeds from the AR Securitization Facility as an alternative to other forms of debt, effectively reducing  borrowing costs.  Borrowings under this facility carry variable interest rates tied to LIBOR.  The interest rate on the AR  Securitization Facility as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020 was 1.20% and 1.07%, respectively.  The termination  date of the AR Securitization is now March 26, 2024. At June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, the Company had borrowings outstanding under its unsecured shelf facility  agreement with Prudential Investment Management of $90,000 and $170,000, respectively.  Fees on this facility  range from 0.25% to 1.25% per year based on the Company's leverage ratio at each quarter end.  The "Series C"  notes, which had an original principal amount of $120,000, carry a fixed interest rate of 3.19%.  During Fiscal 2021,  two principal payments of $40,000 each were made on the "Series C" notes and the remaining balance of $40,000  is due in July 2022.  The "Series D" notes have a remaining principal amount of $25,000, carry a fixed interest rate  of 3.21%, and are due in October 2023.  The "Series E" notes have a principal amount of $25,000, carry a fixed  interest rate of 3.08%, and are due in October 2024. In 2014, the Company assumed $2,359 of debt as a part of the headquarters facility acquisition.  The 1.50% fixed  interest rate note is held by the State of Ohio Development Services Agency, maturing in May 2024. The credit facility and the unsecured shelf facility contain restrictive covenants regarding liquidity, net worth, financial  ratios, and other covenants.  At June 30, 2021, the most restrictive of these covenants required that the Company  have net indebtedness less than 3.75 times consolidated income before interest, taxes, depreciation and  amortization (as defined).  At June 30, 2021, the Company's net indebtedness was less than 2.5 times consolidated  income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined).  The Company was in compliance with all  financial covenants at June 30, 2021. The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions.  The  Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management  of its core business activities.  The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk  primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of its assets and liabilities and the use of derivative  financial instruments.  Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures  that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts,  the value of which are determined by interest rates.  The Company’s derivative financial instruments are used to  manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and its  known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company’s borrowings. The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its  exposure to interest rate movements.  To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps  as part of its interest rate risk management strategy.  Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the  receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the  life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount. For derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk, the gain or loss on the derivative  is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss and subsequently reclassified into interest expense in the same  period(s) during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Amounts reported in accumulated other  comprehensive loss related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the  Company’s variable-rate debt. In January 2019, the Company entered into an interest rate swap to mitigate variability in forecasted interest  payments on $463,000 of the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured variable rate debt.  The interest rate  swap effectively converts a portion of the floating rate interest payment into a fixed rate interest payment.  The  Company designated the interest rate swap as a pay-fixed, receive-floating interest rate swap instrument and is  accounting for this derivative as a cash flow hedge.  During the quarter ended December 31, 2020, the Company  completed a transaction to amend and extend the interest rate swap agreement which resulted in an extension of  the maturity date by an additional three years and a decrease of the weighted average fixed pay rate from 2.61% to  1.63%.  The new pay-fixed interest rate swap is considered a hybrid instrument with a financing component and an  embedded at-market derivative that was designated as a cash flow hedge.  The interest rate swap converts  $420,000 of variable rate debt to a rate of 3.38% as of June 30, 2021.  The interest rate swap converted $431,000  of variable rate debt to a rate of 4.36% as of June 30, 2020.  The fair value (Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy) of the  interest rate cash flow hedge was $14,346 and $26,179 as of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively, which  is included in other current liabilities and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.  Amounts reclassified  from other comprehensive income (loss), before tax to interest expense, net totaled $11,553 and $4,638 for the  years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Marketable securities measured at fair value at June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020 totaled $16,844 and $12,259,  respectively.  The majority of these marketable securities are held in a rabbi trust for a non-qualified deferred  compensation plan.  The marketable securities are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets and  their fair values were valued using quoted market prices (Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy). As of June 30, 2021, the carrying value of the Company's fixed interest rate debt outstanding under its unsecured  shelf facility agreement with Prudential Investment Management approximates fair value (Level 2 in the fair value  hierarchy). The revolving credit facility and the term loan contain variable interest rates and their carrying values approximate fair  value (Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy). During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was enacted  in the U.S.  As a result of the CARES Act, the Company recorded a $1,000 tax benefit related to the carryback of a  tax net operating loss incurred in a year in which the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate was 21% to a year in  which the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate was higher. Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 2019 U.S. $ 152,202 $  36,161 $ 204,462  Foreign 24,860  19,075  (9,981)  Income before income taxes $ 177,062 $  55,236 $ 194,481 The following reconciles the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the Company’s effective income tax rate: As of June 30, 2021 and 2020, the Company had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $35,415  and $29,584, respectively, the tax benefit of which is approximately $8,445 and $7,929, respectively.  These loss  carryforwards will expire at various dates beginning in 2033.  Also, as of June 30, 2021 and 2020, the Company had  state net operating loss carryforwards, the tax benefit of which is approximately $1,034 and $1,177 respectively,  which will expire at various dates beginning in 2027. Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 2019 Statutory income tax rate  21.0 %  21.0 %  21.0 % Effects of: State and local taxes  3.2   6.4   4.4  U.S. federal tax reform/CARES Act NOL carryback  —   (1.8)   (0.3)  Goodwill impairment  —   31.4   —  Stock compensation  (2.5)   (1.3)   (0.5)  GILTI/FDII  0.1   3.6   0.7  R & D credit  (1.5)   (1.2)   (0.4)  U.S. tax on foreign income, net  (0.5)   (3.1)   0.5  Impact of foreign operations  —   1.6   (0.6)  Non-deductibles/Deductible dividend  —   0.6   0.4  Interest deduction  (1.1)   (4.0)   (1.2)  Valuation allowance  0.1   2.6   2.9  Other, net  (0.6)   0.7   (0.9)  Effective income tax rate  18.2 %  56.5 %  26.0 % Valuation allowances are provided against deferred tax assets where it is considered more-likely-than-not that the  Company will not realize the benefit of such assets.  The remaining net deferred tax asset is the amount  management believes is more-likely-than-not of being realized.  The realization of these deferred tax assets can be  impacted by changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future income levels.  During the years ended June 30,  2021 and 2020, the Company recorded a valuation allowance of $267 and $2,124, respectively, related to certain  deferred tax assets in Canada due to the uncertainty in realizing these net deferred tax assets.  The total valuation  allowance provided against the deferred tax assets in Canada is $8,498 and $7,450 as of June 30, 2021 and 2020,  respectively. As of June 30, 2021, the Company had accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of  approximately $121,463.  The vast majority of such earnings have previously been subjected to the one-time  transition tax or the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income ("GILTI") inclusion.  Therefore, any additional taxes due  with respect to such earnings or the excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax basis of our foreign  investments would generally be limited to foreign withholding and state income taxes.  In addition, we expect  foreign tax credits would be available to either offset or partially reduce the tax cost in the event of a distribution.   We intend, however, to indefinitely reinvest these earnings and expect future U.S. cash generation to be sufficient to  meet future U.S. cash needs. The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in U.S. federal, various state, local and foreign jurisdictions.  The following table sets forth the changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended June 30,  2021, 2020, and 2019: The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the provision for income taxes.  During 2021, 2020, and 2019, the Company recognized $144, $256, and $161 of expense, respectively, for interest  and penalties related to unrecognized income tax benefits in its statements of consolidated income.  The Company  had a liability for penalties and interest of $1,238, $1,094, and $838 as of June 30, 2021, 2020, and 2019,  respectively.  The Company does not anticipate a significant change to the total amount of unrecognized income tax  benefits within the next twelve months.  Included in the balance of unrecognized income tax benefits at June 30,  2021, 2020, and 2019 are $4,986, $4,708, and $4,701 respectively, of income tax benefits that, if recognized,  would affect the effective income tax rate. The Company is subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for the tax years 2018 through 2021 and to state  and local income tax examinations for the tax years 2015 through 2021.  In addition, the Company is subject to  foreign income tax examinations for the tax years 2014 through 2021. The Company’s unrecognized income tax benefits are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets  since payment of cash is not expected within one year, or as a reduction of a deferred tax asset. At June 30, 2021, 128 shares of the Company’s common stock held as treasury shares were restricted as collateral  under escrow arrangements relating to change in control and director and officer indemnification agreements. Changes in the accumulated other comprehensive loss for the years ended June 30, 2021, 2020, and 2019, are  comprised of the following amounts, shown net of taxes: Basic net income per share is based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding.  Diluted net  income per share includes the dilutive effect of potential common shares outstanding.  Under the two-class method  of computing net income per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non- forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.  The Company’s participating securities include Restricted  Stock Units ("RSUs") and restricted stock awards.  The Company calculated basic and diluted net income per share  under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.  For the years presented there were no material  differences in the net income per share amounts calculated using the two methods.  Accordingly, the treasury stock  method is disclosed below. Stock awards relating to 234, 726 and 226 shares of common stock were outstanding at June 30, 2021, 2020 and  2019, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the fiscal years then  ended as they were anti-dilutive. Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 2019 Net Income $ 144,757 $  24,042 $ 143,993  Average Shares Outstanding: Weighted-average common shares outstanding for basic computation 38,758  38,658  38,670  Dilutive effect of potential common shares 538  341  490  Weighted-average common shares outstanding for dilutive computation 39,296  38,999  39,160  Net Income Per Share — Basic $  3.73 $  0.62 $  3.72  Net Income Per Share — Diluted $  3.68 $  0.62 $  3.68 Following approval by the Company's shareholders in October 2019, the 2019 Long-Term Performance Plan (the  "2019 Plan") replaced the 2015 Long-Term Performance Plan.  The 2019 Plan, which expires in 2024, provides for  granting of SARs, stock options, stock awards, cash awards, and such other awards or combination thereof as the  Executive Organization and Compensation Committee or, in the case of director awards, the Corporate Governance  Committee of the Board of Directors (together referred to as the Committee) may determine to officers, other key  employees and members of the Board of Directors.  Grants are generally made at regularly scheduled committee  meetings.  Compensation costs charged to expense under award programs paid (or to be paid) with shares  (including SARs, stock options, performance shares, restricted stock, and RSUs) are summarized in the table below: Such amounts are included in selling, distribution and administrative expense in the accompanying statements of  consolidated income.  The total income tax benefit recognized in the statements of consolidated income for share- based compensation plans was $6,649, $2,189 and $2,709 for fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  It  has been the practice of the Company to issue shares from treasury to satisfy requirements of awards paid with  shares. Cost of these programs will be recognized as expense over the weighted-average remaining vesting period of  2.1 years.  The aggregate number of shares of common stock which may be awarded under the 2019 Plan is 2,250;  shares available for future grants at June 30, 2021 were 2,009. Average Expected  Period of Expected  Recognition (Years) SARs and options $ 2,848  2.1 Performance shares 5,172  1.7 Restricted stock and RSUs 5,352  2.5 Total unrecognized compensation costs under award programs $ 13,372  2.1 The expected life is based upon historical exercise experience of the officers, other key employees and  members of the Board of Directors.  The risk free interest rate is based upon U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds  with remaining terms equal to the expected life of the SARs and stock options.  The assumed dividend yield  has been estimated based upon the Company’s historical results and expectations for changes in dividends  and stock prices.  The volatility assumption is calculated based upon historical daily price observations of the  Company’s common stock for a period equal to the expected life. 2021 2020 2019 Expected life, in years 7.0 6.2 6.0 Risk free interest rate  0.5 %  1.6 %  2.8 % Dividend yield  1.9 %  2.3 %  1.8 % Volatility  32.0 %  23.7 %  22.5 % Per share fair value of SARs granted during the year $17.97 $10.12 $16.15 SARs are redeemable solely in Company common stock.  The exercise price of stock option awards may be  settled by the holder with cash or by tendering Company common stock. The weighted-average remaining contractual terms for SARs and stock options outstanding, exercisable, and  expected to vest at June 30, 2021 were 6.3, 5.4, and 6.3 years, respectively.  The aggregate intrinsic values of  SARs and stock options outstanding, exercisable, and expected to vest at June 30, 2021 were $40,928  $27,988, and $40,742, respectively.  The aggregate intrinsic value of the SARs and stock options exercised  during fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019 was $21,189, $3,460, and $3,363, respectively. The total fair value of shares vested during fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019 was $2,880, $2,285, and $1,846,  respectively. Performance shares are paid in shares of Applied stock at the end of a three-year period provided the  Company achieves goals established by the Committee.  The number of Applied shares payable will vary  depending on the level of the goals achieved. The Committee set three one-year goals for each of the 2021, 2020, and 2019 grants.  Each fiscal year  during the three-year term has its own separate goals, tied to the Company’s earnings before interest, tax,  depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) and after-tax return on assets (ROA).  Achievement during any  particular fiscal year is awarded and “banked” for payout at the end of the three-year term.  For the  outstanding grants as of June 30, 2021, the maximum number of shares that could be earned in future  periods was 97. Weighted- Average Exercise  Price Year Ended June 30, 2021 (Shares in thousands) Outstanding, beginning of year 1,620 $  51.07  Granted 68  69.05  Exercised (527)  43.16  Forfeited (3)  59.18  Outstanding, end of year 1,158 $  55.70  Exercisable at end of year 728 $  52.59  Expected to vest at end of year 1,152 $  55.69 Non-vested, beginning of year 56 $  54.62  Awarded 46  53.53  Vested (37)  51.50  Non-vested, end of year 65 $  55.64 The Company’s operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is recorded in  selling, distribution and administrative expense on the statements of consolidated income.  Operating lease costs and  short-term lease costs were $31,778 and $9,929, respectively, for the year ended June 30, 2021 and $33,152 and  $10,581,respectively, for the year ended June 30, 2020.  Variable lease costs and sublease income were not  material. June 30, 2021 2020 Weighted average remaining lease term (years) 5.6 3.6 Weighted average incremental borrowing rate  3.26 %  3.45 % Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 Cash paid for operating leases $  33,695 $  34,642  Right of use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities $  25,556 $  39,136 Restricted stock award recipients are entitled to receive dividends on, and have voting rights with respect to  their respective shares, but are restricted from selling or transferring the shares prior to vesting.  Restricted  stock awards vest over periods of one to four years.  RSUs are grants valued in shares of Applied stock, but  shares are not issued until the grants vest three to five years from the award date, assuming continued  employment with Applied.  Applied primarily pays dividend equivalents on RSUs on a current basis, however  dividend equivalents on RSU grants under the 2019 Plan will be paid upon vesting. Non-vested, beginning of year 130 $  59.91  Granted 94  71.28  Forfeitures (2)  70.85  Vested (45)  60.86  Non-vested, end of year 177 $  65.57 The Company maintains lease agreements for many of the operating facilities of businesses it acquires from previous  owners.  In many cases, the previous owners of the business acquired become employees of Applied and occupy  management positions within those businesses.  The payments under lease agreements of this nature  totaled $2,100 in 2021, $2,500 in 2020, and $2,400 in 2019. The Company's reportable segments are: Service Center Based Distribution and Fluid Power & Flow Control.  These  reportable segments contain the Company's various operating segments which have been aggregated based upon  similar economic and operating characteristics.  The Service Center Based Distribution segment operates through  local service centers and distribution centers with a focus on providing products and services addressing the  maintenance and repair of motion control infrastructure and production equipment.  Products primarily include  industrial bearings, motors, belting, drives, couplings, pumps, linear motion products, hydraulic and pneumatic  components, filtration supplies, and hoses, as well as other related supplies for general operational needs of  customers’ machinery and equipment.  The Fluid Power & Flow Control segment includes our operations that  specialize in distributing, engineering, designing, integrating, and repairing hydraulic and pneumatic fluid power  technologies, and engineered flow control products and services.  This segment also includes our operations that  focus on advanced automation solutions including machine vision, robotics, motion control, and smart technologies. The accounting policies of the Company’s reportable segments are generally the same as those described in note 1.   Intercompany sales, primarily from the Fluid Power & Flow Control segment to the Service Center Based Distribution  segment of $31,615, $29,582, and $28,677, in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively, have been eliminated in the  following table. Fluctuations in corporate and other expense, net, are due to changes in corporate expenses, as well as in the  amounts and levels of certain expenses being allocated to the segments.  The expenses being allocated include  corporate charges for working capital, logistics support and other items. Long-lived assets are based on physical locations and are comprised of the net book value of property and right of  use assets.  Information by geographic area is as follows: The Company is a party to various pending judicial and administrative proceedings.  Based on circumstances  currently known, the Company does not expect that the ultimate resolution of any of these matters will have, either  individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results  of operations, or cash flows. We have evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to June 30, 2021 through the date the financial  statements were issued. ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting None. The Company's management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures,  as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e), as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Based on that  evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are effective. The Management of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate  internal control over financial reporting.  Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under  the supervision of, the President & Chief Executive Officer and the Vice President - Chief Financial Officer &  Treasurer, and effected by the Company’s Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide  reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial  statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of  America. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to  the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of  the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit  preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the  United States of America and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance  with authorizations of the Company’s Management and Board of Directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance  regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets  that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable, not absolute,  assurance with respect to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements and may not  prevent or detect misstatements.  Further, because of changes in conditions, effectiveness of internal control over  financial reporting may vary over time. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting  as of June 30, 2021.  This evaluation was based on the criteria set forth in the framework "Internal Control -  Integrated Framework (2013)" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   Based on this evaluation, Management determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was  effective as of June 30, 2021. The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Deloitte & Touche  LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein. There have not been any changes in internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2021  that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over  financial reporting. /s/ Neil A. Schrimsher /s/ David K. Wells President & Chief Executive Officer Vice President - Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries  (the “Company”) as of June 30, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  In our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2021,  based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United  States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended June 30, 2021, of the Company  and our report dated August 17, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements  and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's adoption of a new accounting standard related to  leases. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its  assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  We are a public accounting firm registered with  the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the US federal  securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and  perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was  maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial  reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding  the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with  generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies  and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the  transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are  recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of  management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely  detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on  the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become  inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may  deteriorate. ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. Not applicable. The information required by this Item as to Applied's directors is incorporated by reference to Applied's proxy  statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held October 26, 2021, under the caption “Item 1 -  Election of Directors.”  The information required by this Item as to Applied's executive officers has been furnished in  this report in Part I, after Item 4, under the caption “Information about our Executive Officers.” The information required by this Item regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934 is incorporated by reference to Applied's proxy statement, under the caption “Delinquent Section 16(a)  Reports." Applied has a code of ethics, named the Code of Business Ethics, that applies to our employees, including our  principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer.  The Code of Business Ethics is  posted via hyperlink at the investor relations area of our www.applied.com website.  In addition, amendments to  and waivers from the Code of Business Ethics will be disclosed promptly at the same location. Information regarding the composition of Applied’s audit committee and the identification of audit committee  financial experts serving on the audit committee is incorporated by reference to Applied's proxy statement, under the  caption “Corporate Governance.” The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Applied's proxy statement for the annual  meeting of shareholders to be held October 26, 2021, under the captions “Executive Compensation” and  “Compensation Committee Report.” ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES. Equity compensation plans not approved by  security holders —  —  —  Total 1,151,872  $55.69 * Equity compensation plans approved by security  holders 1,151,872  $55.69 * Applied's shareholders have approved the following equity compensation plans: the 2011 Long-Term Performance  Plan, the 2015 Long-Term Performance Plan, the 2019 Long-Term Performance Plan, the Deferred Compensation  Plan (no active employees participate in the plan), and the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors  (two active directors participate in the plan).  All of these plans are currently in effect. The following table shows information regarding the number of shares of Applied common stock that may be issued  pursuant to equity compensation plans or arrangements of Applied as of June 30, 2021. Information concerning the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated by  reference to Applied's proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held October 26, 2021, under  the caption “Holdings of Major Shareholders, Officers, and Directors.” The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Applied's proxy statement for the annual  meeting of shareholders to be held October 26, 2021, under the caption “Corporate Governance.” The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Applied's proxy statement for the annual  meeting of shareholders to be held October 26, 2021, under the caption “Item 3 - Ratification of Auditors.” * The 2019 Long-Term Performance Plan was adopted in October 2019 to replace the 2015 Long-Term  Performance Plan and, similarly, the 2015 Long-Term Performance Plan replaced the 2011 Long-Term  Performance Plan.  Stock options, stock appreciation rights, and other awards remain outstanding under the  2011 and 2015 plans, but no new awards are made under those plans.  The aggregate number of shares that  remained available for awards under the 2019 Long-Term Performance Plan at June 30, 2021 was 2,009,333. STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE. (a)1. Financial Statements. (a)2. Financial Statement Schedule. (a)3. Exhibits. * Asterisk indicates an executive compensation plan or arrangement. Exhibit No. Description 3.1 All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and  Exchange Commission have been omitted because they are not required under the related instructions, are not  applicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Page No. Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts: Pg. 69 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., as amended on October 25,  2005 (filed as Exhibit 3(a) to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, SEC File No. 1-2299, and  incorporated here by reference). Code of Regulations of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., as amended on October 19, 1999 (filed as Exhibit 3(b) to  Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by  reference). Certificate of Merger of Bearings, Inc. (Ohio) and Bearings, Inc. (Delaware) filed with the Ohio Secretary of State on  October 18, 1988, including an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated September 6, 1988 (filed as Exhibit 4(a) to  Applied's Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed May 23, 1997, Registration No. 333-27801, and incorporated here by  reference). Amended and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement dated as of October 30, 2019, between Applied  Industrial Technologies, Inc. and PGIM, Inc. (formerly known as Prudential Investment Management, Inc.), and certain  of its affiliates (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied’s Form 8-K filed November 5, 2019, SEC File No. 1-2299, and  incorporated here by reference). Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement dated as of March 26, 2021  between Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and PGIM, Inc. (formerly known as Prudential Investment Management,  Inc.), and certain of its affiliates (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, SEC  File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Request for Purchase dated May 30, 2014 and 3.19% Series C Notes dated July 1, 2014, under Amended and Restated  Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement, between Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. and PGIM, Inc. (filed as  Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed July 2, 2014, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). *10.5 *10.6 *10.7 *10.8 *10.9 *10.10 4.5 *10.1 *10.2 *10.3 *10.4 *10.11 Stock Appreciation Rights Award Terms and Conditions (Officers) (August 2020 revision) (filed as Exhibit 10.4  to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here  by reference). First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of March 26, 2021, among Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., Key  Bank National Association as Agent, and various financial institutions (filed as Exhibit 4.6 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the  quarter ended March 31,2021, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference) . Restricted Stock Award Terms and Conditions (Directors) (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended March 31, 2020, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Credit Agreement dated as of January 31, 2018, among Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., KeyBank National  Association as Agent, and various financial institutions (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed February 6, 2018,  SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of August 31, 2018 among various entities listed on Schedule I thereto (including  Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc.), as originators, Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., as servicer, and AIT  Receivables LLC, as buyer (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 8-K filed September 6, 2018, SEC File No. 1-2299,  and incorporated here by reference). Amendment to the Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors  (Post-2004 Terms) (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014, SEC File No.  1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Form of Director and Officer Indemnification Agreement entered into between Applied and each of its directors and  executive officers (filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Applied's Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed May 23, 1997,  Registration No. 333-27801, and incorporated here by reference). 2011 Long-Term Performance Plan (filed as Appendix to Applied’s proxy statement for the annual meeting of  shareholders held on October 25, 2011, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Non-Statutory Stock Option Award Terms and Conditions (Directors) (filed as Exhibit 10 to Applied's Form 8-K filed  November 30, 2005, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Receivables Financing Agreement dated as of August 31, 2018, among AIT Receivables LLC, as borrower, PNC Bank,  National Association, as administrative agent, Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., as initial servicer, PNC Capital  Markets LLC, as structuring agent and the additional persons from time to time party thereto, as lenders (filed as Exhibit  10.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed September 6, 2018, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Amendment No. 1 to Receivables Financing Agreement and Reaffirmation of Performance Guaranty dated as of March  26, 2021 among AIT Receivables LLC, as borrower, PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, Applied  Industrial Technologies, Inc., as initial servicer, PNC Capital Markets LLC, as structuring agent and the additional  persons from time to time party thereto, as lenders (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 8-K filed March 29, 2021, SEC  File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Amendment No. 1 to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of November 19, 2018 among Applied Industrial  Technologies, Inc. and various of its affiliates, as originators, Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., as servicer, and AIT  Receivables LLC, as buyer(filed as Exhibit 4.10 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021, SEC File  No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). 2015 Long-Term Performance Plan (filed as Appendix to Applied's proxy statement for the annual meeting of  shareholders held on October 27, 2015, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). 2019 Long-Term Performance Plan, amended and restated (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended September 30, 2019, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Amendment No. 2 to Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of March 26, 2021, among various entities listed on  Schedule 1 thereto (including Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc.), as originators, Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc,  as servicer, and AIT Receivables LLC, as buyer (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 8-K filed March 29, 2021, SEC  File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Description of Applied's securities (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to Applied's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2020, SEC File  No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). A written description of Applied's director compensation program is incorporated by reference to Applied’s proxy  statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held October 26, 2021 under the caption “Director Compensation.” Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (September 1, 2003 Restatement), the terms of which govern  benefits vested as of December 31, 2004, for Peter A. Dorsman, an Applied director (filed as Exhibit 10(c) to Applied's  Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2003, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Post-2004 Terms) (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 10- Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). *10.12 *10.13 *10.14 *10.15 *10.16 *10.17 *10.18 *10.19 *10.20 *10.21 *10.22 *10.23 *10.24 *10.25 *10.26 *10.27 *10.28 *10.29 *10.30 *10.31 *10.32 Severance Agreement for Neil A. Schrimsher (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 8-K filed October 31, 2011, SEC File  No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Amendment to Severance Agreement for Neil A. Schrimsher (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 8-K filed October 26,  2012, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Change in Control Agreement for Fred D. Bauer (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed April 25, 2008, SEC File  No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Form of Change in Control Agreement for Kurt W. Loring and David K. Wells (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Applied's Form 10-Q  for the quarter ended September 30, 2013, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). A written description of Applied's Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance for executive officers (filed as  Exhibit 10.33 to Applied's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by  reference). A written description of Applied's Long-Term Disability Insurance for executive officers (filed as Exhibit 10.34 to Applied's  Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). A written description of Applied's Retiree Health Care Coverage for Neil A. Schrimsher and Fred D. Bauer (filed as Exhibit  10.35 to Applied's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by  reference). Change in Control Agreement for Neil A. Schrimsher (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Applied's Form 8-K filed October 31, 2011,  SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Second Amendment to Supplemental Defined Contribution Plan effective as of January 16, 2001 (filed as Exhibit 10(a) to  Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Supplemental Defined Contribution Plan (Post-2004 Terms), restated effective as of January 1, 2017 (filed as Exhibit  10.27 to Applied's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by  reference.) First Amendment to Supplemental Defined Contribution Plan (Post-2004 Terms) (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Applied's 10-Q  for the quarter ended September 30, 2020 SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference.) Applied’s subsidiaries at June 30, 2021. First Amendment to Supplemental Defined Contribution Plan effective as of October 1, 2000 (filed as Exhibit 10(a) to  Applied’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by  reference). First Amendment to the Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefits Plan (Restated  Post-2004 Terms) (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed December 22, 2011, SEC File No. 1-2299, and  incorporated here by reference). Second Amendment to the Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefits Plan  (Restated Post-2004 Terms) (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed October 26, 2012, SEC File No. 1-2299, and  incorporated here by reference). Supplemental Defined Contribution Plan (January 1, 1997 Restatement), the terms of which govern benefits vested as of  December 31, 2004, for Fred D. Bauer (filed as Exhibit 10(m) to Applied’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed May  23, 1997, Registration No. 333-27801, and incorporated here by reference). Restricted Stock Units Terms and Conditions (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September 30, 2020, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Performance Shares Terms and Conditions (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September  30, 2020, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Management Incentive Plan General Terms (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September 30, 2020, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Key Executive Restoration Plan, as amended and restated (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 8-K filed August 16,  2013, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated here by reference). Schedule of executive officer participants in the Key Executive Restoration Plan, as amended and restated (filed as  Exhibit 10.2 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated  here by reference). Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefits Plan (Restated Post-2004 Terms), in which Fred D. Bauer participates (filed  as Exhibit 10.1 to Applied's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, SEC File No. 1-2299, and incorporated  here by reference). Applied will furnish a copy of any exhibit described above and not contained herein upon payment of a specified  reasonable fee, which shall be limited to Applied's reasonable expenses in furnishing the exhibit. Certain instruments with respect to long-term debt have not been filed as exhibits because the total amount of  securities authorized under any one of the instruments does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the Company  and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange  Commission, upon request, a copy of each such instrument. ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY. 23 24 31 32 101 Not applicable. The following financial information from Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year  ended June 30, 2021, formatted in Inline XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) includes: (i) the Statements of  Consolidated Income, (ii) the Statements of Consolidated Comprehensive Income, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets,  (iv) the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows, (v) the Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity, and (vi) the  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101). Section 1350 certifications. Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. Powers of attorney. Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) certifications. (A) Amounts in the years ending June 30, 2021, 2020 and 2019 represent reserves recorded for the return of merchandise by customers.  The Company adopted ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective July 1, 2018 which requires the Company's sales returns reserve to be established at the gross sales value with an asset established for the value of the expected product to be returned. (B) Amounts represent uncollectible accounts charged off. APPLIED INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC. & SUBSIDIARIES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this  report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated. * Peter C. Wallace, Director and Chairman /s/ Fred D. Bauer   Fred D. Bauer, as attorney in fact  for persons indicated by “*” /s/ Neil A. Schrimsher /s/ David K. Wells Neil A. Schrimsher President & Chief Executive Officer Madhuri A. Andrews, Director Peter A. Dorsman, Director * * Mary Dean Hall, Director Dan P. Komnenovich, Director * * Robert J. Pagano, Jr., Director Vincent K. Petrella, Director * /s/  Neil A. Schrimsher Joe A. Raver, Director Neil A. Schrimsher, President & Chief Executive Officer  and Director APPLIED INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC. David K. Wells Vice President-Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer (This page intentionally left blank.) Assumes $100 invested at the close of trading 6/30/2016 in Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc.  common stock, Standard & Poor’s 500, and Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index. Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. 216/649-7241 KEYBANC CAPITAL MARKETS Steve Barger Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. common stock is listed on the New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol AIT.  The Company is identified in most  financial listings as “AppliedIndlTch.” SHAREHOLDER INQUIRIES Requests to transfer Applied  Industrial Technologies, Inc. shares  and all correspondence regarding  address change information,  duplicate mailings, missing  certificates, failure to receive  dividend checks in a timely manner  or to participate in the Company’s  direct stock purchase program  should be directed to the Company’s  transfer agent and registrar: Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc., Standard & Poor’s 500, and Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index (Performance Results from 7/1/2016 through 6/30/2021) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. 100.00 133.49 161.56 144.49 149.73 222.25 Standard & Poor’s 500 100.00 117.90 134.84 148.89 160.06 225.36 Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index 100.00 95.73 117.10 124.35 151.07 202.49 COMPUTERSHARE P.O. Box 505000  Louisville, KY 40233-5000  800/988-5291 RYAN D. CIESLAK Director – Investor Relations  & Treasury  Applied Industrial Technologies  1 Applied Plaza   Cleveland, OH 44115  Telephone: 216/426-4887   E-mail: rcieslak@applied.com ANNUAL MEETING The Annual Meeting of Shareholders  will be held at 9:00 a.m.,  Tuesday, October 26, 2021, at the  Corporate Headquarters of Applied  Industrial Technologies:  1 Applied Plaza,   East 36th and Euclid Avenue,   Cleveland, Ohio 44115 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K The Applied Industrial  Technologies, Inc. Annual Report  on Form 10-K for the fiscal year  ended June 30, 2021, including the  financial statements and schedules  thereto, is available at our website  www.Applied.com. It is also  available without charge upon  written request to the Director –  Investor Relations & Treasury at  the address shown. ROBERT W. BAIRD & CO.  David Manthey  813/288-8503 WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC Mike McGinn  212/214-5052 Adjusted Net Income  and Net Income Per Share 186,445 $4.74  148,689  $3.81 Free Cash Flow  $225,845  $276,599 Adjustments Net Income and Net Income Per Share $144,757  $3.68  $24,042  $0.62  Adjustments Capital expenditures  (15,852)  (20,115) Interest expense, net  30,592   36,535  Income tax expense  32,305   31,194  Depreciation and amortization of property  20,780   21,196  Amortization of intangibles   34,365   40,499  Impairment expense 37,759 0.96  118,800  3.04  Non-routine costs 5,925 0.15  6,857  0.18  Non-routine income (1,996) (0.05) (1,010) (0.03) $240.00 $200.00 $160.00 $120.00 $80.00 $40.00 $240.00 $200.00 $160.00 $120.00 $0.00 $40.00 $80.00 $0.00 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc.  Standard and Poor's 500  Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc.  Standard and Poor's 500  Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index Source: Zacks Investment Research, Inc. Corporate Headquarters 1 Applied Plaza  Cleveland, Ohio 44115 216/426-4000 Applied.com