https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 1/149 Table of Content Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨ No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes x No ¨ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer", "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act: Common stock, par value $0.01 per share HPE New York Stock Exchange Washington, D.C. 20549 None   (I.R.S. employer Or identification no.) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 2/149 If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No x The aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock held by non-affiliates was $20,839,669,847 based on the last sale price of common stock on April 30, 2021. The number of shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company common stock outstanding as of December 7, 2021 was 1,293,439,907 shares. DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION   10-K PART Portions of the Registrant's proxy statement related to its 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after Registrant's fiscal year end of October 31, 2021 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 3/149 Table of Content Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Reserved 31 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 132 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 132 Item 9B. Other Information 132 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 134 Item 11. Executive Compensation 134 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 134 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 134 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 134 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 135 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 140     Page For the Fiscal Year ended October 31, 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 4/149 Table of Content Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "optimistic", "intend", "aim", "will", "should," and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the scope and duration of the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID- 19") and its impact on our business, operations, liquidity and capital resources, employees, customers, partners, supply chain, financial results, and the world economy; any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, investments, effective tax rates, interest rates, the impact of tax law changes and related guidance and regulations, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, inventory, goodwill, impairment charges, hedges and derivatives and related offsets, order backlog, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates, repayments of debts including our asset-backed debt securities, or other financial items; any projections of the amount, execution, timing and results of any transformation or impact of cost savings; restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the anticipated benefits, cost savings, or charges of implementing transformation and restructuring plans; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, as well as the execution of corporate transactions or contemplated acquisitions, research and development expenditures, and any resulting benefit, cost savings, charges, or revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties, and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; risks associated with executing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers, the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's products, and the delivery of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's services effectively; the protection of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties and intellectual property shared with its former parent; risks associated with Hewlett Packard Enterprise's international operations (including pandemics and public health problems, such as the outbreak of COVID-19); the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its suppliers, customers, clients, and partners, including any impact thereon resulting from events such as the COVID- 19 pandemic; the hiring and retention of key employees; the execution, integration, and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the impact of changes to environmental, global trade, and other governmental regulations; changes in our product, lease, intellectual property or real estate portfolio; the payment or non-payment of a dividend for any period; the efficacy of using non-GAAP, rather than GAAP, financial measures in business projections and planning; the judgments required in connection with determining revenue recognition; impact of company policies, and related compliance; utility of segment realignments; allowances for recovery of receivables and warranty obligations; provisions for, and resolution of, pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in Hewlett Packard Enterprise's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward- looking statements, except as required by applicable law. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 5/149 Table of Content ITEM 1. Business upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our customers range from small-and-medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") to large global enterprises and governmental entities. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. Packard Enterprise Company ("we", "us", "our", "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", or "the Company") pursuant to a separation agreement (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement") (collectively the "Separation"). Since the Separation, we have operated as an independent, publicly-traded company. Company ("DXC", "the Everett Transaction" or "Everett"). International plc ("Micro Focus", "the Seattle Transaction" or "Seattle" ). COVID-19 Pandemic Update a global challenge. In fiscal 2021, due to an unprecedented demand for electronic devices and related industry-wide supply constraints, the global economy encountered a challenging supply chain environment. The pandemic continues to have an impact on our financial performance and we are currently unable to predict the extent to which it may adversely impact our future business operations, financial performance and results of operations. For a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to COVID-19, see risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A. require proof of vaccination from HPE personnel, contingent workers, and guests in order to return to our sites, where permitted by local laws and regulations and on the timeline determined appropriate for the geography (as of end of fiscal 2021, the policy was operationalized only in the U.S.). On October 20, 2021, we updated our vaccination policy to require vaccination as a condition of employment for all HPE personnel covered by President Biden's executive order, effective January 18, 2022. We recognize that there are existing legal challenges to the executive order, and we will ensure that the timing and scope of the implementation of our vaccination requirement is consistent with the legal status of the executive order. We are committed to help support costs for the vaccine through HPE health benefits or other programs, to the extent not covered by government programs, medical plans or other sources. edge is increasing exponentially, driven by the proliferation of devices. Secure connectivity is essential to enable the digital experiences we now rely on – and power new, engaging digital experiences in the future. Second, enterprises need a cloud experience everywhere to manage data and workloads wherever they live across a distributed enterprise. Third, data growth is creating countless new opportunities. Enterprises need ways to generate insights from this data to build new business models. Across these trends is the shift in how enterprises are consuming their technology. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense by paying only for the IT they use. evolving rapidly. Its characteristics are shifting, as it becomes more unstructured, more time-sensitive and more distributed. Frequently, data is siloed and spread across different multi-gen IT systems, often trapped in critical legacy architecture. Many organizations cannot adequately extract insights from their data at the edge or face cloud migration challenges because of their legacy applications. Customers need a data-first modernization approach across edge to data center to cloud. transformation through a unified cloud services experience that enables customers to access, control and maximize the value of all their workloads and data. Our solutions across connectivity, cloud and data – which are increasingly being delivered as-a-service through HPE GreenLake – are complemented by HPE Pointnext services that provide unique transformation capabilities, as well as HPE Financial Services, which helps customers unlock financial capacity. On November 1, 2015, HP Inc. ("former Parent"), formerly known as Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP Co.") spun-off Hewlett The pace of technology disruption continues to increase, and the pandemic has accelerated several megatrends. First, data at the Data insights are critical to deliver business outcomes, but extracting value from data is challenging. Data is growing and We declared our vision to be the edge-to-cloud company. Our HPE GreenLake platform accelerates multi-generation IT PART I https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 6/149 Table of Content promise lies in its potential for positive change. This is the guidepost for each decision we make at HPE. We believe it not only helps guide our contribution to society, but also makes good business sense. Our company has always been an engine of innovation, and our approximately 60,400 employees as of October 31, 2021, are proud of the ways our technology enables our customers to achieve meaningful outcomes like curing disease, modernizing farming to cure world-hunger and democratizing transportation through autonomous vehicles. purpose. We are passionate about the values that drive our success, which is why we believe in investing in our employees and in the communities where we live and work. HPE has intensified its focus on embedding these values into a vibrant culture that creates a superior team member experience and a highly engaged workforce, driving improvements across our communications, our reward programs, and our work environment. Through such efforts, we are fostering a collaborative, inclusive and inspiring experience for all our team members. Our most recent global engagement survey shows how these intentional efforts are making a difference, with our overall Employee Engagement Index increasing year-over-year and measuring 84%. More than 85% of team members would recommend HPE as a great place to work, and 89% say they are proud to work for HPE. accelerating what’s next, in bold moves, in the “power of yes we can”, and in being a force for good. We embed these beliefs in a deep- rooted DNA that puts customers first, enabling us to partner, innovate and act with integrity. Our empowered and engaging culture is making HPE a destination for talent while driving innovation and excellence for our customers. fuel innovation and enable our workforce, customers, and communities to succeed in the digital age. This is because, by harnessing the potential of our technologies and our team members, we can be a force for good. Annual goals are set to increase the representation of both women and ethnically diverse talent by at least 1 percentage point year-over-year. At the close of fiscal 2021, the representation of women in our workforce had increased 1 percentage point since the prior year, with increased representation at every level worldwide, exceeding the goals in both technical and executive roles. We also increased our representation of all underrepresented minorities in the U.S., increasing such representation by 1.6 percentage points overall. The leadership standards clearly articulate that all people leaders are expected to continuously develop their inclusive leadership capabilities. Our Board, CEO and Executive Committee role model high standards for diversity, equity and inclusion and are leading sustainable change, with strong governance and oversight via our Inclusion and Diversity Council. strategy, transparent goal setting, driving accountability, continuously assessing, developing, advancing talent, and a leadership-driven talent strategy. The dynamism of our industry and our company enables team members to grow in their current roles and build new skills. Over the past year, our approximately 60,400 team members completed over 455,000 online and instructor-led courses across a broad range of categories – leadership, inclusion and diversity, professional skills, technical and compliance. HPE is deeply committed to identifying and developing the next generation of top tier leadership with a special focus on diverse and technical talent. We conduct an in-depth annual talent and succession review with our CEO and Executive Committee members. The process focuses on accelerating talent development, strengthening succession pipelines, and advancing diversity representation for our most critical roles. in our culture and creating a team member experience that makes HPE a destination of choice for the best talent in the industry. It includes an industry-leading paid parental leave program (minimum 6 months), part-time work opportunities for new parents or team members transitioning to retirement, and "Wellness Fridays" encouraging team members to leave work early one Friday per month to focus on their well-being. HPE's broader wellness program offers flexibility built around team member needs while continuing to deliver on critical business results. Key features include mental health support including employee assistance programs and free headspace accounts, physical fitness activities, and financial wellness programs. competitive and performance based, driving innovation and operational excellence. Our compensation programs, practices, and policies reflect our commitment to reward short- and long-term performance that aligns with, and drives, stockholder value. Total direct compensation is generally positioned within a competitive range of the market median, with differentiation based on tenure, skills, proficiency, and performance to attract and retain key talent. At HPE we are united by our purpose, which is to advance the way people live and work. We believe technology’s greatest Talent: We invest in attracting, developing and retaining the best talent. We do this by communicating a clear purpose and https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 7/149 Table of Content company. Our team is energized and more engaged than ever and will enable our ability to pivot and grow, which will, in turn, power the next chapter at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. ("HPC & MCS") to High Performance Computing and Artificial Intelligence ("HPC & AI"). ("FS"), and Corporate Investments and Other. The class of similar product categories within each segment which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue in each of the past three years were as follows: Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." offer the best performance and value for demanding applications. This portfolio of products includes our secure and versatile HPE ProLiant rack and tower servers; and HPE Synergy, a composable infrastructure for traditional and cloud-native applications. HPE ProLiant servers are the compute foundation for the fastest growing workloads in the industry including hyperconverged infrastructure ("HCI"), virtual workspaces ("VDI"), data management, transcoding and visualization. Compute offerings also include operational and support services. HPE GreenLake for Compute provides flexible Compute as-a-service ("aaS") IT infrastructure on a consumption basis. hardware solutions are segmented into several categories, High Performance Compute ("HPC"), Data Solutions, and Edge Compute. The HPC portfolio includes the HPE Apollo and Cray products that are sold as supercomputing systems, including exascale supercomputers (systems which have exaflops performance or a billion-billion calculations per second), to support data-intensive workloads for high performance computing, data analytics and artificial intelligence applications. The Data Solutions portfolio (previously named Mission Critical Solutions) includes the HPE Superdome Flex, HPE Nonstop and HPE Integrity product lines for critical applications such as payments and transaction processing that require high availability, fault-tolerant computing infrastructure. The Edge Compute product portfolio includes HPE Edgeline products for computing at the network edge. In connection with our hardware offerings, HPE offers a suite of software products, including AI-powered technologies designed to play a critical role in turning data into readily available, actionable information to fuel growth and innovation for our customers. These include the recently acquired Determined AI, which provides a software stack to train AI models using its open source machine learning platform. cloud services, which is a flexible as-a-service platform that HPE can provide on-premises or in a colocation facility. With offerings that are artificial intelligence-driven and built for hybrid cloud environments with GreenLake consumption models, we provide the right workload optimized destinations for data. convenience of the government entity. These terms and rights include in some instances a dependence on the appropriation of future funding and also termination rights contingent upon not achieving certain milestones. For a discussion of certain risks related to contracts with government entities, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors—Failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations". GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and data infrastructure to enable customers to simplify IT and unlock greater levels of agility with a cloud operational experience. The customer experience transformation also includes AI and data-driven intelligence with Our HPC & AI business offers standard and custom hardware and software solutions designed to support specific use cases. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 8/149 Table of Content HPE InfoSight and HPE CloudPhysics. Customers can store and serve their data with speed and high availability to applications, secure and protect their data across hybrid clouds from ransomware and cyber threats, and gain data mobility across private cloud, public cloud, and multi-cloud environments. Nimble Storage and HPE 3PAR; software-powered hyper-converged infrastructure consisting of HPE Nimble Storage dHCI and HPE SimpliVity; disaster recovery and ransomware recovery with Zerto, our recent acquisition; backup as-a-service with HPE Backup and Recovery Service, and big data solutions running on HPE Apollo servers. Storage also provides solutions for secondary workloads and traditional tape, storage networking and disk products, such as HPE Modular Storage Arrays ("MSA") and HPE XP. We make our data infrastructure portfolio available as-a-service through HPE GreenLake. Storage offerings also include operational and support services, software subscription services, and solutions delivered as-a-service through HPE GreenLake. include wired and wireless local area network ("LAN"), campus and data center switching, software-defined wide area networking (from the Silver Peak acquisition), network security, and associated services to enable secure connectivity for businesses of any size. The primary business drivers for Intelligent Edge solutions are work from anywhere environments, mobility, and internet-of-things ("IoT"). The insights from data generated at the edge are key to driving new business outcomes and experiences. switches, routers and sensors. The HPE Aruba software and services portfolio includes cloud-based management, network management, network access control, analytics and assurance, location services software, and professional and support services, as well as as-a-service and consumption models through HPE GreenLake for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. connectivity, security, and financial requirements across campus, branch, data center, and remote worker environments, covering all aspects of wired, wireless LAN, and wide area networking ("WAN"). and asset management services, for customers that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and others. FS also supports financial solutions for on-premise flexible consumption models, such as HPE GreenLake. In order to provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT life cycle, FS partners with customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. FS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. consultative-led services, HPE and partner technology expertise and advice, implementation services as well as complex solution engagement capabilities; the Communications and Media Solutions ("CMS") business which primarily offers software and related services to the telecommunications industry; the Software business which offers HPE Ezmeral Container Platform and HPE Ezmeral Data Fabric; and Hewlett Packard Labs which is responsible for research and development. • Edge-to-cloud strategy and solutions uniquely solve customer challenges. As data grows and evolves and enterprises become increasingly distributed, HPE’s edge-to-cloud strategy is uniquely designed to enable customers to securely access, control and maximize the value of all their workloads and data assets to accelerate business outcomes. The HPE GreenLake platform is an open, secure, fully integrated platform that brings a unified experience across the edge, data center, colocation and cloud. It is automated and easy to consume with capacity available to scale up and down on demand. It offers true pay per use consumption so customers only pay for what they use, and they can have the entire hybrid cloud experience managed for them through our HPE GreenLake managed services offering. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 9/149 Table of Content • Comprehensive portfolio. We have a distinctive and industry leading portfolio of edge-to-cloud solutions and unique capabilities to help accelerate our customers' digital transformations. We combine our software-defined infrastructure and services capabilities to provide what we believe is the strongest portfolio of enterprise solutions in the IT industry. Our ability to deliver a comprehensive IT strategy and connect our customers' data from edge to cloud, through our high-quality products and high-value consulting and support services in a single package, is one of our principal differentiators. • Differentiated consumption-based IT solutions for a growing opportunity. Enterprises of all sizes are looking to digitally transform in order to develop next-generation cloud-native applications, create actionable insights from their data, and drive business growth, but they face many challenges including lack of in-house IT skills, limited budgets and options for financing, and lack of flexibility to choose the technology foundation that best meets their needs. Consumption-based IT offers solutions to these challenges by providing greater agility, empowering people to shift from managing infrastructure to driving innovation by leveraging insights from their data, while eliminating capital and operating expenses tied to infrastructure over- provisioning. HPE is distinctly differentiated in delivering a true consumption-based IT experience. • Multi-year innovation roadmap and strong balance sheet. We have been in the technology and innovation business for over 80 years. Our vast intellectual property portfolio and global research and development capabilities are part of a broader innovation roadmap designed to help organizations take advantage of the expanding amount of data available and leverage the latest technology developments like cloud, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity to drive business outcomes now and in the future. We also have a strong balance sheet and liquidity profile that provides the financial flexibility and speed to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. • Global distribution and partner ecosystem. We are experts in delivering innovative technological solutions to our customers in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments. We have one of the largest go-to-market capabilities in our industry, including a large ecosystem of channel partners, which enables us to market and deliver our product offerings to customers located virtually anywhere in the world. • Custom financial solutions. Through Financial Services we can help customers create investment capacity to accelerate their transformations by helping them free up capital, capture value from older assets, achieve sustainability goals, invest in new technologies as-a-service, and weather financial volatility. Financial Services is also an enabler of our consumption-based IT models by helping spread our upfront solution costs over the duration of the customer contract. Through Financial Services' Global Asset Recovery Centers, we are helping customers achieve their own sustainability goals by recovering over 3 million IT assets in fiscal 2020 and refurbishing close to 90% for reuse. • Experienced leadership team. Our management team has an extensive track record of performance and execution. We are led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Antonio Neri, who has proven experience in developing transformative business models, building global brands and driving sustained growth and expansion in the technology industry. Neri's experience includes over 20 years combined at HPE and HP Co. in various leadership positions. Our senior management team has many years of experience in our industry and possesses extensive knowledge of and experience in the enterprise IT business and the markets in which we compete. • Open platforms. The world is shifting from centralized and closed approaches in large data centers to a future of centers of data everywhere which are highly decentralized and distributed. This shift demands a common cloud platform that can put the agility and intelligence close to the customers data sources to create real-time insights, everywhere. Many of our competitors want to lock customers into a cloud stack. Conversely, we believe that the cloud experience should be open and seamless across all our customers' clouds — and the best cloud transformation partner is one who is unbiased and offers choice. We are unique in our ability to enable any hybrid cloud strategy and a consistent experience that is open to any cloud and differentiated with our partner integrations. We manage our business and report our financial results based on the segments described above. Our customers are organized by https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 10/149 Table of Content customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. This has resulted in a combined go-to-market model, in which we have a direct sales presence in a number of countries, while we sell and deliver our products, solutions and services through a channel-only model in the remaining countries. In those countries where we have a direct sales presence, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers as well as with large public sector accounts. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers, our businesses collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting smaller accounts, both in the commercial and public sector space. design. The use of outsourced and contract manufacturers is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for our products as well as create manufacturing flexibility in our supply chain and processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under our brand. In addition to our use of outsourced and contract manufacturers, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. have existing alternate sources of supply or such alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we do rely on single-source suppliers for certain customized parts (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations in the event of a disruption) and a disruption or loss of a single-source supplier could delay production of some products. In some instances, our single-source suppliers (e.g. Intel and AMD as suppliers of certain x86 processors) are also the single-source suppliers for the entire market; disruptions with these suppliers would result in industry-wide dislocations and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources due to certain events taking place where our suppliers are geographically concentrated. When necessary, we are often able to obtain scarce components for somewhat higher prices on the open market, which may have an impact on our gross margin, but does not generally disrupt production. We also acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints, or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. See "Risk Factors—We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly" in Item 1A. anticipated to last at least through the end of this calendar year. This global shortage impacts HPE and the technology market segment as a whole. While we anticipate further industry-wide tightening we took proactive inventory buffering measures in order to position us well during the second half of the fiscal year and going forward. We will take additional inventory actions as appropriate in alignment to the market demand, and will continue to leverage strong partnerships and long-term agreements with our suppliers. not been delivered as of the reporting period. • systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and • advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that We purchase materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 11/149 Table of Content fiscal 2020. At the same time, the global pandemic resulted in an unprecedented demand for electronic devices, which, coupled with related industry-wide supply constraints, has led to a challenging supply chain environment. Additionally, the pandemic continues to play a role with ongoing delays to the global logistics environment. As a result, in the second half of fiscal 2021, we experienced a shortage of electric components and logistics timing issues which resulted in significantly higher levels of order backlog and commodity costs across our hardware segments, and particularly in Compute, Storage and Intelligent Edge. Currently, we expect these challenging supply chain conditions to persist in the near term. to impose restrictions on non-essential work activities and travel. As and when the pandemic subsides, our focus on backlog may again become less relevant as a reliable indicator of future demand. entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. International basis for our customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Approximately 68% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2021 came from sales outside the United States. our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," and "—We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates" in Item 1A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk" in Item 7A of Part II and Note 13, "Financial Instruments", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which are incorporated herein by reference. on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high- quality products, services and solutions to maintain and enhance our competitive position. that integrate the latest industry technology, which coupled with other innovations from HPE are aligned to the requirements of our customers. In the area of software-as-a-service we are developing a cloud-native, cloud-based server management solution to complement our existing portfolio. most demanding workloads. Our R&D investments are focused on developing new technologies in high-performance fabric, artificial intelligence platforms, scalable memory systems, and high-performance storage and data solutions that underpin our differentiated offerings. We also invest in software to enable our solutions. These investments include high-performance computing and artificial intelligence developer tools, cloud-native and scalable cluster management software, and transaction processing software. HPC & AI also hosts an applied research group, Labs, where we invest in long term, disruptive R&D including photonics, advanced systems architectures, and artificial intelligence software that comprise a pipeline of technologies to consider for future commercialization. All of our products are being developed with the potential to be delivered in a consumption model including integrated into our HPE GreenLake platform. Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide Innovation is a key element of our culture and critical to our success. Our research and development efforts ("R&D") are focused Expenditures for R&D were $2.0 billion in fiscal 2021, $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020 and $1.8 billion in fiscal 2019. We anticipate https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 12/149 Table of Content markets. Our comprehensive on-premise scalable infrastructure is transforming to utilize HPE’s leadership in Compute, Networking, and Storage to provide end-to-end cloud-native infrastructure. This infrastructure serves as a foundation for our as-a-service offering, includes the industry-first 100% guarantee, and delivers cloud-native infrastructure tightly integrated and managed by our AI engines. Creatively augmented by an all-inclusive as-a-service HPE GreenLake offering, HPE continues to power the edge-to-core-to-cloud data pipeline with embedded AI that delivers deep learning analytics across the full data lifecycle. wired and wireless networks, together with software defined wide area network ("SD-WAN") connectivity. The ESP platform complements a broad range of network devices in our unified network infrastructure layer with security capabilities that enable us to identify and authenticate users and IoT endpoints, to enforce policy, and finely segment traffic based on context to contain security threats. We are also investing in automation, machine learning and artificial intelligence based network operations to optimize user experience and improve operator efficiency. Many of these capabilities are enabled with the Aruba Central cloud service, and we are investing to integrate Aruba Central as part of the broader HPE GreenLake as-a-service offering. groups to deliver differentiated intellectual property ("IP"). Our innovation agenda is focused on developing technologies in the areas of system architecture, networking, AI, accelerators and silicon photonics. We also continue to invest in our silicon design capability to accelerate the development and delivery of our technology with custom integrated circuits. strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer" in Item 1A. where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. As of October 31, 2021, our worldwide patent portfolio included approximately 13,000 issued and pending patents. remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and "—Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in Item 1A. may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months. However, the pandemic resulted in a temporary disruption to the seasonal fluctuation of our business. See "Risk Factors—Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable" in Item 1A. competition in all areas of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our IT infrastructure offerings. Patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise IT infrastructure products, solutions and services. We encounter strong https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 13/149 Table of Content positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, continuously enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors are technology vendors, such as Dell Technologies Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM"), and NetApp Inc. In certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. Our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. primary competitors are compute technology vendors that can design and build solutions that deliver performance scalability and connectivity necessary to handle super-compute and AI workloads, including Dell Technologies Inc., Lenovo Group Ltd., and IBM. Similar to the compute space, our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantages include our deep expertise and capabilities designing and delivering these solutions, broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. Our primary competitors are technology vendors, such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Juniper Networks, Inc., and Arista Networks Inc. Our strategy is to deliver superior enterprise wired and wireless local-area networking components and software, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. Our competitive advantage includes our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. Financing, Dell Financial Services, and Cisco Capital, as well as banks and other financial institutions. Our primary IT Asset Disposition ("ITAD") competitors are ERI, Ingram Micro, Sage Sustainable Electronics, and Sims Recycling Solutions. We believe our competitive advantage over banks, other financial institutions, and ITAD providers is our ability to bring together our investment solutions with our expertise in managing technology assets. Not only are we able to deliver investment solutions that help customers create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs, but we also help them extract value from existing IT investments while more efficiently managing the retirement of those assets. All of these solutions can help customers accelerate digital transformation, create new budget streams, and meet Circular Economy objectives. competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in Item 1A. Climate Change of the future, while advancing the way people live and work. This strategy underpins our commitment to the environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") factors most important to stakeholders. Our edge-to-cloud strategy helps our customers transform and digitize their business while reducing our environmental footprint. A legacy of ESG leadership increases our competitiveness and differentiates us in the marketplace by helping our customers achieve their business objectives and sustainability goals. The HPE Board of Directors provides oversight of our ESG strategy, practices, and policies to ensure integration with our core business strategy. program is an increasingly powerful component of our relationships with customers, and our sustainability credentials provide us with a competitive advantage, support talent acquisition and retention, and ensure ongoing access to global markets. HPC & AI predominantly operates in the market for data-intensive super-computing, analytics, and artificial intelligence. Financial Services. In our financing business, our primary competitors are captive financing companies, such as IBM Global Sustainable Value Creation - Sustainability performance has become a core business discipline within HPE. Our Living Progress https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 14/149 Table of Content to measure our progress. the opportunity to innovate technologies for a carbon-constrained world and are committed to delivering products and services that empower our customers to operate sustainably and efficiently while also gaining maximum productivity from their IT investments and reducing costs. For instance, as-a-service delivery models can drive the reduction of our climate impact and that of our customers, by eliminating IT inefficiencies and enabling sustainable digital transformations. HPE GreenLake, the Company's as-a-service offering, allows customers to consume IT resources and spend capital expenditures as needed, thereby reducing the energy and resource consumption of IT infrastructure through improved utilization and provisioning. Environment Assessment Tool, TCO Certified, Energy STAR, China SEPA and the China Energy Conservation Program, thus helping our customers make responsible purchasing choices. a number of rules and regulations. Costs and accruals incurred to comply with these governmental regulations are presently not material to our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future government laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position, we do not currently anticipate material expenditures for government regulations. Nonetheless, as discussed below, we believe that global trade and certain ESG regulations could potentially materially impact our business. concerning the environment, including, among others, laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the management, movement, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites; product safety, such as chemical composition, packaging and labeling; energy consumption of our products and services; and the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. We are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). Finally, as climate change and other ESG-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. However, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and other ESG-related issues, and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental and ESG-related laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy; a strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services; an extensive supply chain responsibility program; and an approach to ethical standards and strong governance that are the foundations of our business. international treaties, U.S. export controls and sanctions laws, customs regulations, and local trade rules around the world. Such laws, rules and regulations may delay the introduction of some of our products or impact our competitiveness through restricting our ability to do business in certain places or with certain entities and individuals, or the need to comply with domestic preference programs, laws concerning transfer and disclosure of sensitive or controlled technology or source code, unique technical standards, localization mandates, and duplicative in-country testing and inspection requirements. The consequences of any failure to comply with domestic and foreign trade regulations could limit our ability to conduct business globally. We continue to support open trade policies that recognize the importance of integrated cross-border supply chains that will continue to contribute to the growth of the global economy and measures that standardize compliance for manufacturers to ensure that products comply with safety and security requirements. within "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. We remain committed to becoming a net zero enterprise by no later than 2050, with near-term targets set across our value chain In 2021, most of our greenhouse gas emissions ("GHG") resulted from the manufacture and use of our products. We recognize https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 15/149 Table of Content previously served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of our Enterprise Group from November 2015 to June 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served in a similar role for HP Co.'s Enterprise Group from October 2014 to November 2015. Neri served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Servers business unit from September 2013 to October 2014 and concurrently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Networking business unit from May 2014 to October 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Neri served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the HP Technology Services business unit from August 2011 to September 2013 and as Vice President, Customer Services for the HP Personal Systems Group from 2007 to August 2011, having first joined HP Co. in 1996. Since December 2017, Mr. Neri has served as a director of Anthem, Inc., a health insurance provider in the U.S. From March 2012 to February 2013, Mr. Neri served as a director of MphasiS Limited, an India-based technology company. Thomas E. Black Jr.; Senior Vice President, General Manager of Storage to that, Mr. Black served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Switching within our Intelligent Edge business segment from October 2018 to December 2019. From January 2016 to October 2018, Mr. Black served as the Vice President and General Manager of Switching within our Intelligent Edge business. From June 2013 to January 2016, Mr. Black was the Vice President of Engineering for the Networking group at HP Co., and later, at HPE. Prior to that, Mr. Black served in various roles, including Vice President of Engineering and other engineering positions at Cisco Systems from November 1999 to May 2013. Kirt P. Karros; Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer in a similar role at HP Co. and led its Investor Relations from May 2015 to October 2015. Karros previously served as Principal and Managing Director of Research for Relational Investors LLC, an investment fund, from 2001 to May 2015 and concurrently as a director of PMC-Sierra, a semiconductor company, from August 2013 to May 2015 and as a director of InnerWorkings, Inc. from August 2019 to October 2020. Neil B. MacDonald; Senior Vice President, General Manager of Compute 2020. Prior to that, Mr. MacDonald served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Compute Solutions group of the then Hybrid IT business segment, from October 2018 to February 2020. MacDonald previously served as Vice President and General Manager of BladeSystem from August 2015 to October 2020, having first joined HP Co. in 1996. Antonio Neri 54 President and Chief Executive Officer Thomas E. Black Jr. 52 Senior Vice President, General Manager of Storage Kirt P. Karros 52 Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer Neil B. MacDonald 53 Senior Vice President, General Manager of Compute Alan May 63 Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer Philip J. Mottram 53 President, Intelligent Edge Jeff T. Ricci 60 Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer Tarek Robbiati 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Irving H. Rothman 75 President and Chief Executive Officer, HPE Financial Services John F. Schultz 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Legal Officer Itanium is a trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries. Neri has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2017 and February 2018, respectively. Black has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Storage business segment since December 2019. Prior Karros has served as our Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Karros served MacDonald has served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Compute business segment since February Name Age Position https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 16/149 Table of Content Enterprise, Mr. May served as Vice President, Human Resources at Boeing Commercial Aircraft, a division of The Boeing Company, from April 2013 to June 2015. Prior to that, Mr. May served as Vice President, Human Resources for Boeing Defense, Space and Security at Boeing from April 2011 to June 2015 and as Vice President, Compensation, Benefits and Strategy at Boeing from August 2007 to April 2011. May has also served in senior human resources roles at Cerberus Capital Management and PepsiCo. He serves as a Trustee for the American Foundation for the Blind and is on the Board of Governors for the San Francisco Symphony. Philip J. Mottram; President, Intelligent Edge Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Communications Technology Group from April 2019 to June 2021. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, he served as the Chief Revenue Officer of Zayo Group, a communications infrastructure provider, from November 2017 to February 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Mottram served as Director of the Enterprise Business Unit of Vodafone from May 2014 to November 2017, the Chief Executive Officer of Hong Kong CSL from September 2012 to May 2014, and Executive Director of Global Sales at Telstra International from September 2010 to September 2012, as well as a variety of different operational roles at other telecommunications companies. Jeff T. Ricci; Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer that, Mr. Ricci performed a similar role at HP Co. from April 2014 to November 2015. Previously, Mr. Ricci served as Controller and Principal Accounting Officer at HP Co. on an interim basis from November 2013 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Ricci served as Vice President, Finance for several of HP Co.'s organizations, including Technology and Operations from May 2012 to November 2013, Global Accounts and HP Financial Services from March 2011 to May 2012, and HP Software from March 2009 to March 2011. Packard Enterprise, Mr. Robbiati served as Chief Financial Officer of Sprint Corporation from August 2015 to February 2018. Robbiati previously served as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of FlexiGroup Limited in Australia from January 2013 to August 2015. Prior to that, from December 2009 to December 2012, Mr. Robbiati was Group Managing Director and President of Telstra International Group in Hong Kong and Executive Chairman of Hong Kong CSL Limited ("CSL"), a subsidiary of Telstra Corporation Limited. From July 2007 to May 2010, Mr. Robbiati served as the Chief Executive Officer of CSL in Hong Kong. Irving H. Rothman; President and Chief Executive Officer, HPE Financial Services and financing subsidiary, since November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Rothman served in a similar role at HP Co. from May 2002 to November 2015. Prior to joining HP Co., Mr. Rothman was President and Chief Executive Officer of Compaq Financial Services Corporation from January 1997 to April 2002. John F. Schultz; Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Legal Officer served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Secretary from December 2017 to July 2020. Schultz previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from November 2015 to December 2017, performing a similar role at HP Co. from April 2012 to November 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Schultz served as Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Investigations and Global Functions at HP Co. from September 2008 to April 2012. Prior to joining HP Co., Mr. Schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, a law firm, from March 2005 to September 2008, where, among other clients, he supported HP Co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Transformation from September 2020 to March 2021, where he led our transformation efforts to accelerate our pivot to as-a-service offerings. Prior to that, Mr. Hotard served as President and Managing Director of HPE Japan from October 2019 to September 2020, as Senior Vice President and General May has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer since June 2015. Before joining Hewlett Packard Mottram has served as the President of our Intelligent Edge business since June 2021. Prior to that, Mr. Mottram served as Ricci has served as our Senior Vice President, Controller and Principal Accounting Officer since November 2015. Prior to Robbiati has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2018. Before joining Hewlett Rothman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of our Financial Services business segment, our IT investment Schultz has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating and Legal Officer since July 2020. Prior to that, he Hotard has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager of HPC & AI global business group since March 2021. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 17/149 Table of Content Manager of the Compute Global Business Unit from January 2017 to October 2019 and as Vice President of Strategy, Planning and Operations in the Data Center Infrastructure Group from August 2015 to January 2017. Before joining Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Mr. Hotard was President of NCR Small Business from July 2013 to November 2014 and Vice President of Corporate Development of NCR Corporation from July 2012 to August 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Hotard served in various corporate development and operational roles at Symbol Technologies and Motorola, Inc. filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance and Investment Committee, HR and Compensation Committee, Technology Committee, and Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Standards of Business Conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. Stockholders may request free printed copies of these documents from: http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 18/149 Table of Content ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Enterprise and its common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. We are unable to predict the extent to which the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact our business operations, financial performance and results of operations. services worldwide, including in most or all of the regions in which we sell our products and services and conduct our business operations. The pandemic has resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity, including travel restrictions, prohibitions of non- essential activities in some cases, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. Our operations have been affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control, including the various restrictions imposed by cities, counties, states and countries on our employees, customers, partners and suppliers designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. Although the immediate impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have been assessed, the long- term magnitude and duration of the disruption and resulting decline in business activity is still highly uncertain and cannot currently be predicted. home policy until further notice that applies to a significant majority of our employees, with the exception of those performing essential activities. Most recently, we have announced a vaccination requirement for covered U.S. employees as required by Executive Order 14042 for federal contractors. We recognize that there are existing legal challenges to Executive Order 14042, and we will ensure that the timing and scope of the implementation of our vaccination requirement is consistent with the legal status of Executive Order 14042. Our employees may elect to return to the office in jurisdictions where both local requirements and our own health and safety standards have been met. As such instances occur, employees have returned to the office in a phased process and remain subject to safety regimens anchored around vaccination or testing requirements, as we determine is appropriate based on local conditions. Moreover, certain industry and customer events that we sponsor or at which we present have been canceled, postponed or moved to virtual-only experiences, and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional events in the future. We are also seeing an increase in customer requirements for HPE employees to be vaccinated and/or tested for COVID-19 before being able to enter customer sites, which could potentially present an operational challenge. Also, work-from-home and other modified business practices introduce additional operational risks, including cybersecurity risks, which may result in inefficiencies or delays, and have affected the way we conduct our product development, sales, customer support and other activities. Unanticipated disruptions in services provided through our localized physical infrastructure caused by the COVID-19 pandemic can curtail the functioning of critical components of our IT systems, and adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders, provide services, respond to customer requests and maintain our worldwide business operations. Our implementation of employee vaccination requirements may result in attrition, including attrition of critically skilled labor, and difficulty securing future labor needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. for our products and services; restricting our operations and sales, marketing and distribution efforts; disrupting the supply chains of hardware products; and disrupting our research and development capabilities, engineering, design and manufacturing processes and other important business activities. There have been, and will continue to be, delays of hardware product shipments from our vendors and out of our manufacturing operations worldwide as a result of capacity issues. We also expect product shipment delays as a result of shortages and capacity issues that continue to impact logistics operations. and duration of which we are currently unable to predict. While such changes were factored into the forecast used to assess assets for reserves and impairment, including goodwill, any changes to the profitability for the next fiscal year could impact the realizability of assets. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial and other capital markets which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price, our ability to access capital markets and our ability to fund liquidity needs. it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating Hewlett Packard https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 19/149 Table of Content Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. to, earthquakes; tsunamis; floods; hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons; fires; other extreme weather conditions; power or water shortages; telecommunications failures; materials scarcity and price volatility; terrorist acts, civil unrest, conflicts or wars; and medical epidemics or pandemics. We are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events. Although it is impossible to completely predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, forecasting disruptive events and building additional resiliency into our operations accordingly will become an increasing business imperative. The occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain, result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. worldwide business operations. Our corporate headquarters is located in Houston, Texas, which suffers from floods, hurricanes, and other extreme weather, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires, each affecting the health and safety of our employees. In California, to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities are deploying public safety power shutoffs, which affects electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. In 2017, our principal worldwide IT data centers in Houston were flooded due to Hurricane Harvey. Since then, HPE has increased its resiliency through site selection and infrastructure technological investments to mitigate and adapt to physical risks from climate change. certain geographic locations, including the United States, Czech Republic, Mexico, China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Singapore. We also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to HPE's distribution channels and customers. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. Other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed. Our transition to a subscription/consumption-based business model may adversely affect our business, operating results and free cash flow. subscription/consumption-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings. We will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, ultimately giving our customers choices in consuming HPE products and services in a traditional or as-a-service offering. Such business model changes entail significant risks and uncertainties, and we may be unable to complete the transition to a subscription/consumption-based business model or manage the transition successfully and in a timely manner, and our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the subscription/consumption transition, even if we successfully complete the transition. The transition to a subscription/consumption-based business model also means that our historical results, especially those achieved before we began the transition, may not be indicative of our future results. Further, as customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our as-a-service offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). negative impact to cash flows in the near term, and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. Furthermore, we anticipate needing to redesign our go-to-market structure, to better align with the subscription/consumption-based business model. We must adapt our sales processes for new sales and marketing approaches, including those required by our shift to subscription/consumption services and other changes resulting from the pandemic. Changing our go-to-market structure may affect employee compensation models and ultimately our ability to retain employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from such adjustments. Further, our subscription/consumption offerings could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as operational, technical, legal or other costs. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 20/149 Table of Content We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. abilities to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of solutions that we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain solutions, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational and labor risks, each of which is described below. • Component shortages. We have been and currently are experiencing delays and shortages of certain components as a result of strong demand and capacity constraints due to economic changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, and other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. A surge in demand for silicon has arisen across numerous markets affecting availability of key components of our products and our supplier's products, which may adversely affect customer deliveries and our anticipated revenues. As shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components has increased and may continue to increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or, at some point, the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. • Excess supply. In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into long term agreements or non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. • Contractual terms. As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. • Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. • Single-source suppliers. We obtain certain components from single-source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale or customization needs. Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may initially be unable to meet demand or be subject to other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single- source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 21/149 Table of Content We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our periodic restructuring programs can be disruptive to our business. streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems) and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our IT infrastructure and redesign business processes. We may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information about our restructuring plans, the HPE Next initiative and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, see Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"), and also handle any post-closing issues, such as integration. For example, in September 2020, we acquired Silver Peak Systems, Inc., an SD-WAN industry leader and in September 2019, we acquired Cray Inc., a global supercomputer leader. In April 2017 and September 2017, we spun off our Enterprise Services and Software businesses, respectively. See also the risk factors below under the heading "Risks Related to Prior Separations." • We may not successfully combine product or service offerings or fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, which may result in (1) failure to retain employees, customers, distributors, and suppliers; (2) increase in unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations which may cause financial results to differ from expectations; and (3) significant increase in costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. • Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. We may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies or all of the factors necessary to estimate reasonably accurate costs, timing and other matters. • In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders or we may enter into financing arrangements, which could affect our liquidity and financial condition. • For an acquisition or other combination, the acquisition partner may have differing or inadequate cybersecurity and data protection controls, which could impact our exposure to data security incidents and potentially increase anticipated costs or time to integrate the business. • Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. • We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. • For a divestiture, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. • The impact of divestitures on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, as we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected. If we do not satisfy pre-closing conditions and necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, it may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 22/149 Table of Content impacted if we fail to successfully complete or integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives. System security risks, data protection incidents, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. "malicious parties") who have been able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures. Although some of these attacks have caused disruptions or exposure of information, so far, these attacks have not resulted in material losses to HPE, nor have any of HPE's consumers, customers, or employees informed HPE that these attacks resulted in material harm to them. It is possible that future attacks may result in material misappropriation, system disruptions or shutdowns, malicious alteration, or destruction of our confidential or personal information or that of third parties. Malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. Malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain to embed malicious software or hardware in our products for use in compromising our customers. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. business may process, store and transmit customer data, including commercially sensitive and personal data, subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation and other privacy laws. With our business increasingly providing cloud service offerings, malicious parties could target such services, potentially resulting in an increased risk of compromise of customer data and regulatory exposure. Incidents involving our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, sensitive, confidential, or personal data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in regulatory fines, litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other IT solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of managing an incident and implementing further data protection measures could be significant. connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. cloud platform as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. HPE delivers unique, open and intelligent technology solutions, including those utilizing machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities, with a consistent experience across all clouds and edge computing platforms. To successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, • Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult or discourage an acquisition of Hewlett Packard Enterprise if our Board of Directors deems it to be undesirable. Provisions such as indemnification, meeting requirements, and blank check stock authorizations could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests, or changes in control or management of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, our continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 23/149 Table of Content aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. products, services, and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. For example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as-a-service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. Should such efforts fail to produce actionable insights or our products not perform as promised, our business results may be adversely affected. Any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. Our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. (distributors and resellers) sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. Moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. Many of our https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 24/149 Table of Content significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and IT support positions. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. Certain equity-based incentive awards for certain executives contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. If the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. significant impact on our operations. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Industry Risks We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, product range and ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, and security of our offerings. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. addition, companies with whom we have vertical relationships also may acquire or form relationships with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with vertical partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must Companies with whom we have vertical relationships in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 25/149 Table of Content competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards software defined and public cloud, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further, ongoing U.S. federal government spending priorities may limit demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. sanctions, and U.S. regulations concerning imports, as well as international laws and regulations relating to global trade. Current U.S. government trade policy includes the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. These measures have materially increased costs for certain goods imported into the United States. This in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. U.S. government trade policy has resulted in, and could result in more, U.S. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. Similarly, changes in regulations relating to exports could prevent us from exporting products to certain locations or customers entirely. In addition, changes in requirements relating to making foreign direct investments could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil Our business and financial performance also could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. trade policy, U.S. export controls and Sales outside the United States constituted approximately 68% of our net revenue in fiscal 2021. Our future business and https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 26/149 Table of Content the United States. For example, we rely on suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. But in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, people may engage in business practices prohibited by anti-corruption laws. Our employees and third parties we work with may take actions in violation of our policies, and those actions could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. have an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. These third-party software components may become • inflationary pressures, such as those the market is currently experiencing, which may increase costs for materials, supplies, and services; • network security, privacy and data sovereignty concerns, which could make foreign customers reluctant to purchase products and services from U.S.-based technology companies; • fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the British pound, Chinese yuan (renminbi) and the Japanese yen, can Much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. For example, https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 27/149 Table of Content obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. We may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. In order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. Additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. Our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. Because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the IT industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. assertion entities frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of extracting infringement settlements. If we cannot license, or replace, allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. Fitch Ratings Services. Despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. Additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; • making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. Third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Patent In addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This collective amount of To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 28/149 Table of Content outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in IT spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In addition, as discussed in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Use of Estimates" and Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies," to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, we face increasing complexity related to product design, the use of regulated, hazardous and scarce materials, the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to the use of products, the transportation and shipping of products, climate change regulations, and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to our transition to a more circular economy. A significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. Any changes to current environmental legal requirements, such We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations such as those concerning environmental protection. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 29/149 Table of Content as the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive or China's regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, among others, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the EU, China and/or other countries proposing or adopting similar environmental legal requirements. In addition, other ESG-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are being proposed, adopted and implemented throughout the world (including, but not limited to, the European Commission’s proposal on Sustainable Corporate Governance). If we were to violate or become liable under environmental or certain ESG-related laws or if our products become non-compliant with such laws or market access requirements, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, and we could incur costs or face other sanctions, such as restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions, fines, and/or civil or criminal sanctions. Environmental regulations may also impact the availability and cost of energy or emissions related to energy consumption which may increase our cost of manufacturing and/or the cost of powering and cooling owned IT infrastructures. we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. If we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. Our potential exposure includes regulatory fines and civil or criminal sanctions third-party claims and reputational damage. Failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. laws and regulations, required contract provisions, and other requirements relating to contract formation, administration, and performance. Any violation of government contracting laws and regulations or contract terms could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, treble damages, and suspension from future government contracting. Such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. In addition, we will continue to be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts. If we are suspended or disbarred from government work or if our ability to compete for new government contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These proposals, if finalized and adopted by the associated countries, would impose a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%, could increase tax complexity and uncertainty, and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. which includes a number of changes that would impact the U.S. federal taxation of corporations. Among other items, the legislation includes provisions that would raise the tax rate on foreign income of U.S. corporations, apply the Global Intangible Low-Tax Income regime on a country-by-country basis, impose a new alternative minimum tax on book income, and impose a surcharge on corporate stock buybacks. The U.S. Senate has not voted on or agreed to the legislation, but if this happens and President Biden signs it into law, it could materially impact our tax provision, cash tax liability and effective tax rate. with HP Inc. Because we now have limited indemnity rights from HP Inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. In addition, our business is subject to an ever-growing number of laws addressing privacy and information security. In particular, We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected The U.S. House of Representatives has passed legislation consistent with the framework President Biden announced previously, https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 30/149 Table of Content The stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former Enterprise Services business and our former Software segment could result in significant tax liability, and DXC or Micro Focus (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"); and (ii) the relevant merger as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. While the Software Separation generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, the acquisition of Seattle SpinCo by Micro Focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for U.S. persons who received Micro Focus American Depositary Shares in the Software Separation. certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, Everett SpinCo and CSC, or us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, as applicable. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive Everett SpinCo shares or Seattle SpinCo shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Enterprise Services business and Software Segment. Those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The conclusions of the IRS private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the IRS. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the IRS private letter rulings may be affected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment, including non-U.S. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. If the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business or Software Segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or DXC and/or Micro Focus could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Everett SpinCo and Seattle SpinCo generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. We continue to face a number of risks related to the Separation from our former Parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the Separation and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. In these agreements, HP Inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of HP Inc.'s business with HP Inc. We may be obligated to fully indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities under the We obtained private letter rulings from the IRS regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our In connection with the Separation, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. entered into several agreements that determine the https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 31/149 Table of Content Separation agreements or HP Inc. may not be able to fully cover their indemnification obligations to us under the same Separation agreements. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. For example, through a joint brand holding structure, both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy Hewlett-Packard and HP branding, respectively. As a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of HP Inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. General Risks Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. cash flows. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile and can be affected by, among other things, speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; our quarterly financial results and comparisons to estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by us; the financial results and business strategies of our competitors; inflation; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; or the timing and amount of our share repurchases. General or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise's performance also may affect the price of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's stock. Volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 32/149 Table of Content ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. ITEM 2. Properties. Company's operationally utilized space is provided below. our properties are utilized in whole or in part by our Compute, HPC & AI, Storage, and Intelligent Edge segments. years. These changes may include reductions in overall space. Principal Executive Offices Texas, 77070, United States of America. Product Development, Services and Manufacturing ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings. Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. Administration and support 3  6  9 United States—Alpharetta, Andover, Chippewa Falls, None. As of October 31, 2021, we owned or leased approximately 15 million square feet of space worldwide. A summary of the We believe that our existing properties are in good condition and are suitable for the conduct of our business. Substantially all of https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 33/149 Table of Content ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information "HPE". Holders stock as of November 30, 2021. Dividends quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share, payable on January 7, 2022, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 10, 2021. Our Board of Directors' decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and on our access to the capital markets. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to pay a dividend in any future period. which was refreshed with additional share repurchase authorizations of $3.0 billion, $5.0 billion and $2.5 billion on May 24, 2016, October 16, 2017 and February 21, 2018, respectively. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. The Company may choose to repurchase shares when sufficient liquidity exists and the shares are trading at a discount relative to estimated intrinsic value. global economic uncertainty that resulted from the worldwide spread of the novel coronavirus. On September 2, 2021, the Company announced that it reinstated the share repurchase program. common stock. The Company had unsettled open market repurchases of 0.8 million shares as of October 31, 2021. Shares repurchased during fiscal 2021 were recorded as a $225 million reduction to stockholders' equity. As of October 31, 2021, the Company had a remaining authorization of $1.9 billion for future share repurchases. This graph covers the period from October 31, 2016 through October 31, 2021. This graph assumes the investment of $100 in the stock or the index on October 31, 2016 (and the reinvestment of dividends thereafter). On April 1, 2017, we Month 1 (August 2021) — $ —  — $ 2,110,281  Month 2 (September 2021) 6,638 $ 13.92  6,638 $ 2,017,871  Month 3 (October 2021) 8,094 $ 14.96  8,094 $ 1,896,829  Total 14,732 $ 14.49  14,732  Not applicable. During fiscal 2021, we paid a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share to our shareholders. On November 30, 2021 we declared a The payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, is within the discretion of our Board of Directors. On October 13, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a $3.0 billion authorization, During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, the Company repurchased and settled 14.7 million shares of the Company's The graph below shows the cumulative total stockholder return, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Information Technology Index. Shares Purchased and Total Number of Settled PART II https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 34/149 Table of Content completed the separation and merger of our Enterprise Services business with DXC. HPE stockholders received 0.085904 shares of common stock in the new company for every one share of HPE common stock held at the close of business on the record date. On September 1, 2017, we completed the separation and merger of our Software business segment with Micro Focus. HPE stockholders received 0.13732611 American Depository Shares ("Micro Focus ADSs") in the new company, each of which represents one ordinary share of Micro Focus, for every one share of HPE common stock held at the close of business on the record date. The effect of the Everett and Seattle Transactions are reflected in the cumulative total return as reinvested dividends. The comparisons in the graph below are based on historical data and are not indicative of, or intended to forecast, future performance of our common stock. ITEM 6. [Reserved] Hewlett Packard Enterprise $ 100.00 $ 108.15 $ 121.25 $ 134.47 $ 73.79 $ 129.44  S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 $ 123.62 $ 132.69 $ 151.69 $ 166.40 $ 237.77  S&P Information Technology Index $ 100.00 $ 138.96 $ 156.05 $ 191.30 $ 257.25 $ 377.96  10/2016 10/2017 10/2018 10/2019 10/2020 10/2021 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 35/149 Table of Content ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. section, we use the terms "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", "the Company", "we", "us", and "our" to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. References in the MD&A section to "former Parent" refer to HP Inc. 2021 and fiscal 2020. Discussions of fiscal 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020, as filed with the SEC on December 10, 2020, which is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. the reader in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear in Part II, Item 8 of this document. impact on our operations. For a further discussion of the pandemic and the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to it, see the discussion in the section titled "COVID-19 Pandemic Update", "Manufacturing and Materials" and "Backlog" in Part I, Item 1, and risks identified in the section entitled " Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A. with the Company's edge-to-cloud platform delivered as-a-service strategy. Navigating through the pandemic and planning for a post- COVID world have increased customers' needs for as-a-service offerings, secure connectivity, remote work capabilities and analytics to unlock insights from data. Our solutions are aligned to these needs, and we see opportunity to help our customers drive digital transformations as they continue to adapt to operate in a new world. • Trends and Uncertainties. A discussion of material events and uncertainties known to management such as COVID-19, our response to the challenges and trends, and our pivot to as-a-service strategy. • Executive Overview. A discussion of our business and summary analysis of financial and other highlights, including non- GAAP financial measures, affecting the Company in order to provide context to the remainder of the MD&A. • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. • Results of Operations. A discussion of the results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a discussion of the results of operations at the segment level. • Liquidity and Capital Resources.  An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our financial condition and liquidity. • Contractual Cash and Other Obligations. An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan funding, restructuring plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements. • GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation. Each non-GAAP measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure therein. This section also includes a discussion on the usefulness of non-GAAP financial measures, and material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 36/149 Table of Contents market trends, such as the market shift of workloads to cloud-related IT infrastructure business models, emergence of software-defined architectures and converged infrastructure functionality and growth in IT consumption models. Certain of our legacy hardware server and storage businesses face challenges as customers migrate to cloud-based offerings and reduce their purchases of hardware products. Therefore, the demand environment for traditional server and storage products is challenging and lower traditional compute and storage unit volume is impacting support attach opportunities within the associated services organization. service offerings with integrated products and solutions, our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors. with a choice between traditional consumption models or subscription-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings across our entire portfolio of HPE products and services. at the edge driven by the proliferation of devices. Second is the need for a cloud experience everywhere to manage the growth of data at the edge. Third, data growth is creating new opportunities with the need to quickly extract value from the captured data. Enterprises have embraced multi-cloud strategies, as they recognize the need for different cloud environments for different types of data and workloads. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform, while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense, by paying only for the IT they use. the Intelligent Edge and High Performance Computing and Artificial Intelligence ("HPC & AI") businesses while at the same time, we are strengthening our core Compute and Storage businesses, doubling down in key areas of growth, and accelerating our as-a-service pivot to become the edge-to-cloud platform-as-a-service choice for our customers and partners. coverage with our strategic goals. We continue to pursue new product innovations that build on our existing capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking, which will keep us aligned with market demand, industry trends and the needs of our customers and partners. In addition, we continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies. Other Trends and Uncertainties We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges include dynamic and accelerating Another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors are expanding their product and A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. We intend to provide our customers Additionally, the global pandemic has accelerated several trends relevant to the Company. First, the exponential increase of data capabilities in security and edge services from HPE Aruba. The Aruba Edge Services Platform ("ESP") with Aruba’s built-in identity-based network security is unique in the market and provides the ideal foundation for building a zero trust and secure access service edge. Our comprehensive portfolio and Artificial Intelligence-powered cloud-driven platforms, such as Aruba ESP and Aruba Central, will continue to accelerate WAN and security deployments, advance cloud and IoT adoption and fast- track digital transformation. We are on track to grow high-margin recurring revenue with technology that accelerates our ability to capture the high-growth WAN market opportunity. Additionally, we introduced a new class of cloud-native and fully automated data center switching products specifically designed for edge cloud data centers which represents a significant market opportunity for HPE. AI, deep learning, and machine learning. They now will have access to HPC technologies, including exascale supercomputing systems, that were historically prohibitive due to their cost and complexity. HPE GreenLake cloud services is a flexible as-a- service platform that customers can run on-premises or in a colocation facility. three new HPE ProLiant Solutions targeting 5G deployments for telecommunication companies and virtual desktop infrastructure. We launched our new HPE 5G Open radio access network ("RAN") solution stack for telecommunications companies to accelerate the commercial adoption of Open RAN in 5G network deployments. • Compute - our strategy to grow profitability and pivot to more as-a-service solutions is paying off. Compute includes HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 37/149 Table of Contents is becoming more software-rich as we build our GreenLake Cloud platform, which is improving our margin profile. On the innovation front, we announced a transformative new data storage services platform that brings our cloud operations model to wherever data lives by unifying data operations. The platform will be available through HPE GreenLake Central and include a new data services cloud console and a suite of software subscription services that simplifies and automates global infrastructure at scale. We will continue to invest aggressively in HPE GreenLake Cloud Services to provide a true cloud experience and operating model, whether at the edge, on- premises or across multiple clouds. rental income from operating leases and interest income from capital leases) and software-as-a-service, subscription, and other as-a- service offerings, recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. We use ARR as a performance metric. ARR should be viewed independently of net revenue, and is not intended to be combined with it. related financial services due to an expanding customer installed base. Additionally, ARR increased due to higher Intelligent Edge as-a- service activity, including Silver Peak, and growth in Storage as-a-service driven by Zerto, a recent acquisition. 2020, unless otherwise noted. The Capital Resources and Contractual Cash and Other Obligations discussions present information as of October 31, 2021, unless otherwise noted. factors including improvements in the overall demand environment from the prior-year period resulting in revenue growth across most of our segments, a strong order backlog at the beginning of the period, incremental revenue from the Silver Peak acquisition and favorable currency fluctuations. The revenue increase was moderated by a decrease in unit shipments due largely to industry-wide material constraints and a related challenging supply chain environment which resulted in significantly higher levels of order backlog across our hardware segments at the end of the current period. The gross profit margin of 33.7% represented an increase of 2.3 percentage points due to a combination of factors led by strong pricing discipline, cost savings from our transformation programs and a continued mix shift toward higher-margin software-rich offerings. The operating profit margin of 4.1% represented an increase of 5.3 percentage points due primarily to our strong operational execution in fiscal 2021 and the absence of a goodwill impairment charge which we recognized in fiscal 2020. We generated $5.9 billion of cash flow from operations (including $2.2 billion of after-tax cash from Oracle Corporation's satisfaction of a judgment in the Itanium breach of contract litigation) due to higher net earnings and improved working capital management. Free cash flow excluding the litigation judgment was $1.6 billion. ARR $ 796  $ 585  year-over-year growth rate 36 % N/A Annualized Revenue Run-rate ("ARR") Our pivot to as-a-service continues its strong momentum with the addition of HPE GreenLake Cloud Services. Our mix of ARR Net revenue of $27.8 billion represented an increase of 3.0% (increased 1.0% on a constant currency basis) due to a variety of is a transformative technology, featuring the industry’s first server-optimized for 5G Open RAN workloads with our HPE ProLiant Servers. and provide data insights with our portfolio offerings. We introduced a new portfolio of cloud native data infrastructure called HPE Alletra which delivers workload optimized systems and provides customers with architectural flexibility to run any application without compromise, from edge-to-cloud with our operational experience. These innovations are propelling our storage business into a cloud-native software-defined data services business through organic innovation and targeted acquisitions. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 38/149 Table of Contents "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations" included in this MD&A for these reconciliations, usefulness of non-GAAP financial measures, and material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. returns to shareholders and strategic investments. We believe our existing balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, are sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. As of October 31, 2021, our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $4.3 billion, compared to the October 31, 2020 balance of $4.6 billion, representing a decrease of $0.3 billion. We maintain a $4.75 billion five year senior unsecured committed credit facility that was entered into in August 2019. As of October 31, 2021 no borrowings were outstanding under this credit facility. Net revenue 27,784  26,982  3.0% Gross profit $ 9,376  $ 8,469  10.7% Gross profit margin 33.7 % 31.4 % 2.3pts Earnings (loss) from operations $ 1,132  $ (329) NM Operating profit margin 4.1 % (1.2)% 5.3pts Net earnings (loss) $ 3,427  $ (322) NM Diluted net earnings (loss) per share $ 2.58  $ (0.25) $ 2.83  Cash flow from operations $ 5,871  $ 2,240  162.1 % Net revenue adjusted for currency $ 27,247  $ 26,982  1.0% Non-GAAP gross profit $ 9,424  $ 8,543  10.3% Non-GAAP gross profit margin 33.9 % 31.7 % 2.2pts Non-GAAP earnings from operations $ 2,848  $ 2,282  24.8% Non-GAAP operating profit margin 10.3 % 8.5 % 1.8pts Non-GAAP net earnings $ 2,602  $ 2,005  29.8% Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share $ 1.96  $ 1.54  $0.42 Free cash flow $ 1,551  $ 560  $991 Financial Results The following table summarizes our consolidated GAAP financial results: Each non-GAAP measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure herein. Please refer to the section https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 39/149 Table of Contents ("GAAP"), which requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. A summary of significant accounting policies and a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Revenue Recognition containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer at the transaction price. Transaction price is adjusted for variable consideration which may be offered in contracts with customers, partners and distributors and may include rebates, volume- based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs. the time of revenue recognition. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. Variable consideration is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. the contract among the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price ("SSP") basis. We establish SSP for most of our products and services based on the observable price of the products or services when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. When the SSP is not directly observable, we estimate SSP based on management judgment by considering available data such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs. We establish SSP ranges for our products and services and reassesses them periodically. reflected in our income tax returns. We will adjust our current and deferred tax provisions based on our tax returns which are generally filed in the third or fourth quarters of the subsequent fiscal year. of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future sources of taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. In HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 40/149 Table of Contents provided for U.S. federal taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings and basis differences indefinitely outside the U.S. We will remit non-indefinitely reinvested earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided where excess cash has accumulated and when we determine that it is advantageous for business operations, tax or cash management reasons. tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our (Provision) benefit for taxes, Net earnings (loss) and cash flows. Our accrual for uncertain tax positions is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, intercompany transactions and related interest, and uncertain tax positions from acquired companies. For further discussion on taxes on earnings, refer to Note 6, "Taxes on Earnings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ("IPR&D"), liabilities assumed, and non-controlling interests in the acquiree generally based on their fair values at the acquisition date. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of these assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests in the acquiree is recorded as goodwill. management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, which includes consideration of future growth rates and margins, attrition rates, future changes in technology and brand awareness, loyalty and position, and discount rates. Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Amounts recorded in a business combination may change during the measurement period, which is a period not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition, as additional information about conditions existing at the acquisition date becomes available. goodwill may not be recoverable. We are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived most significantly from the income approach and, to a lesser extent, the market approach, with the exception of the Software reporting unit which uses a weighting derived most significantly from the market approach. Under the income approach, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Cash flow projections are based on discrete forecast periods as well as terminal value determinations, including revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows. These cash flow projections are discounted to arrive at the fair value of each reporting unit. The discount rate used is based on the weighted-average cost of capital of comparable public companies adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with operating and investment characteristics similar to the reporting unit. We weight the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. When market comparables are not meaningful or not available, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit using only the income approach. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price could provide evidence of a need to record a goodwill impairment charge. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and approximately 90 other countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income In the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. Estimating the fair value HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 41/149 Table of Contents determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit. determined that an indicator of potential impairment existed to require an interim quantitative goodwill impairment test for its reporting units. The quantitative goodwill impairment test indicated that the carrying value of the HPC & AI reporting unit exceeded its fair value by $865 million. As a result, we recorded a partial goodwill impairment charge of $865 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. result in any additional impairment charges. The excess of fair value over carrying amount for our reporting units ranged from approximately 8% to 133% of the respective carrying amounts. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value of our reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit. Based on the results of this hypothetical 10% decrease all of the reporting units had an excess of fair value over carrying amount, with the exception of HPC & AI reporting unit. value of net assets of 8%. The HPC & AI business is facing challenges on the current and projected future results as the revenue growth is dependent on timing of delivery and related achievement of customer acceptance milestones. If we are not successful in addressing these challenges, the projected revenue growth rates or operating margins could decline resulting in a decrease in the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit. The fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit could also be negatively impacted by changes in its weighted average cost of capital, changes in management's business strategy or significant and sustained declines in the stock price, which could result in an indicator of impairment. Further impairment charges, if any, may be material to our results of operations and financial position. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the potential impacts of the pandemic on the fair value of our assets. amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of our finite-lived intangible assets is assessed based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the finite-lived intangible assets are considered to be impaired. The amount of the impairment loss, if any, is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value. We estimate the fair value of finite-lived intangible assets by using an income approach or, when available and appropriate, using a market approach. assets of the HPC & AI reporting unit and concluded that such assets were not impaired. Contingencies probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We review these matters at least quarterly and adjust these liabilities to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other updated information and events, pertaining to a particular case. discussed in Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements are not a meaningful indicator of our potential liability. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies. We believe we have recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of October 31, 2021, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in connection with such matters in excess of the amounts recognized in our financial statements. During the annual impairment test in fiscal 2020, we determined that no additional impairment of goodwill existed. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, did not As of the annual test date, the HPC & AI reporting unit had a goodwill of $3.7 billion and an excess of fair value over carrying We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 42/149 Table of Contents our overall net revenue. As a result, our revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we present the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, which assumes no change in foreign currency exchange rates from the prior-year period and doesn't adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This change in revenue on a constant currency basis is calculated as the quotient of (a) current year revenue converted to U.S. dollars using the prior-year period's foreign currency exchange rates divided by (b) prior-year period revenue. This information is provided so that revenue can be viewed without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our revenue results and trends. This constant currency disclosure is provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a GAAP basis. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes. U.S. net revenue decreased by $0.3 billion or 3.4% to $8.9 billion, while net revenue from outside of the U.S. increased by $1.1 billion or 6.3% to $18.9 billion. Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 27,784  100.0 % $ 26,982  100.0 % $ 29,135  100.0 % Cost of sales 18,408  66.3 % 18,513  68.6 % 19,642  67.4 % Research and development 1,979  7.1 % 1,874  6.9 % 1,842  6.3 % Selling, general and administrative 4,929  17.7 % 4,624  17.2 % 4,907  16.9 % Amortization of intangible assets 354  1.3 % 379  1.4 % 267  0.8 % Impairment of goodwill —  — % 865  3.2 % —  — % Transformation costs 930  3.3 % 950  3.5 % 453  1.6 % Disaster charges (recovery) 16  0.1 % 26  0.1 % (7) — % Acquisition, disposition and other related charges 36  0.1 % 80  0.3 % 757  2.6 % Interest and other, net (211) (0.8)% (215) (0.8)% (177) (0.6)% Tax indemnification and related adjustments 65  0.2 % (101) (0.4)% 377  1.3 % Non-service net periodic benefit credit 70  0.3 % 136  0.5 % 59  0.2 % Litigation judgment 2,351  8.5 % —  — % —  — % Earnings from equity interests 180  0.6 % 67  0.3 % 20  — % (Provision) benefit for taxes (160) (0.6)% 120  0.4 % (504) (1.7)% Gross profit 9,376  33.7 % 8,469  31.4 % 9,493  32.6 % Earnings (loss) from operations 1,132  4.1 % (329) (1.2)% 1,274  4.4 % Earnings (loss) before taxes 3,587  12.9 % (442) (1.6)% 1,553  5.3 % Net earnings (loss) $ 3,427  12.3 % $ (322) (1.2)% $ 1,049  3.6 % Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of In fiscal 2021, total net revenue of $27.8 billion, increased by $0.8 billion, or 3.0% (increased 1.0% on a constant currency basis). https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 43/149 Table of Contents HPC & AI, Storage, and Financial Service, respectively. Compute net revenue was largely unchanged from the prior-year period. cost savings from our transformation programs, a continued mix shift toward higher-margin software-rich offerings and favorable currency fluctuations. percentage points to the change. The increase was moderated by cost savings of 4.5 percentage points as we rationalize our R&D through transformation programs by focusing investment in growth areas. currency fluctuations, which contributed 4.1 percentage points and 2.1 percentage points to the change, respectively. the end of their amortization in the current period and higher write-offs of certain intangible assets in the prior-year period. The decrease was moderated by an increase in amortizations in the current period resulting from recent acquisitions. quarter of fiscal 2020, as it was determined that the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit was below the carrying value of its net assets. (launched in 2017). The cost optimization and prioritization plan focuses on realigning our workforce to areas of growth, a new hybrid workforce model called Edge-to-Office, real estate strategies and simplifying and evolving our product portfolio strategy. The implementation period for the cost optimization and prioritization plan is through fiscal 2023. The HPE Next initiative was intended to put in place a purpose-built company designed to compete and win in the markets where we 2021 2020   Percentage Points Compute —  (5.0) HPC & AI 0.3  0.4  Storage 0.3  (2.0) Intelligent Edge 1.6  (0.2) Financial Services 0.2  (0.8) Corporate Investments and Other 0.2  0.1 Elimination of intersegment net revenue 0.4  0.1  Total segment 2.6  (7.5) Total HPE 3.0  (7.4) The components of the weighted net revenue change by segment were as follows: Our gross profit margin increased 2.3 percentage points due primarily to a combination of factors led by strong pricing discipline, Research and development R&D expense increased by $105 million, or 6% due primarily to higher employee compensation expense which contributed 11.0 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 44/149 Table of Contents participate by simplifying our operating model, streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems to improve our execution. The implementation period for HPE Next was extended to fiscal 2023. with higher IT costs and lower gains on real estate sales in the current period moderating the decrease. HPE hosted, co-hosted, or sponsored events which were converted to a virtual format or cancelled. related to retention bonuses and integration activities in the current year period. Interest and other, net including higher gains from equity investments, lower interest expense from lower average borrowings, and lower unfavorable currency fluctuations, offset by early debt redemption costs, lower gains on the sale of certain assets and lower interest income. which we were indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement within Tax Indemnification and related Adjustments. We also record changes to certain pre-Separation and pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables for which we remain liable on behalf of the separated or divested business, but which may not be subject to indemnification. 2020, respectively. received regarding the base on which two social contribution taxes in Brazil ("PIS" and "COFINS") are imposed. As a result of this decision, the Company is entitled to recover credits and associated interest related to the overpayment of these transaction taxes imposed between 2005 and 2019 to be used to offset future Brazilian tax liabilities. As such, we have recorded benefits of $17 million and $80 million, both net of taxes, for the recovery of PIS and COFINS, respectively, during fiscal 2021, of which $25 million was included in Net revenue, $10 million related to interest income was included in Interest and other, net, and $80 million related to pre- Separation liabilities was included in Tax indemnification and related adjustments. The corresponding income taxes of $18 million as a result of this recovery were included in (Provision) benefit for taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. which we shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we are indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement and changes to certain pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables. for the Hewlett Packard Enterprise defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans such as interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and the amortization of prior plan amendments and actuarial gains or losses. The credit also includes the impact of any plan settlements, curtailments, or special termination benefits. Itanium breach of contract dispute. The gain was recognized as other income and presented as a Litigation judgment in Transformation costs decreased by $20 million, or 2% due primarily to lower restructuring charges recorded in the current year, We record changes in certain pre-Separation tax liabilities for which we share joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for Non-service net periodic benefit credit decreased by $66 million due primarily to lower expected returns on plan assets. In October 2021, the Company received $2.35 billion which represents Oracle Corporation's satisfaction of the judgment in the HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 45/149 Table of Contents the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For further discussion, refer to Note 17, “Litigation and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. a basis difference. Earnings from equity interests increased by $113 million due to higher net income earned by H3C and gains from certain venture investments. respectively, which reflect effective tax rates of 4.5% and 27.1%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world but may also be materially impacted by discrete tax adjustments during the fiscal year. The jurisdictions with favorable tax rates that had the most significant impact on our effective tax rate in the periods presented include Puerto Rico and Singapore. ("CODM"), who is the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), uses to evaluate, view and run our business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management to evaluate segment results. ("HPC & MCS") to High Performance Computing and Artificial Intelligence ("HPC & AI"). Earnings from equity interests primarily represents our 49% interest in H3C Technologies and the amortization of our interest in In fiscal 2021, we recorded $294 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily In fiscal 2020, we recorded $362 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily share joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we are indemnified by HP Inc. Itanium litigation judgment, against which $244 million of income tax attributes previously subject to a valuation allowance were utilized, resulting in a net tax expense of $93 million. shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we are indemnified by HP Inc., impact of the Company's goodwill impairment charge being non-deductible from a tax perspective. • $180 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs, and acquisition, disposition and other related • $57 million of income tax benefits related to Indian distribution tax rate changes, and •  $40 million of income tax benefits related to tax rate changes on deferred taxes. • These discrete tax benefits were offset by $242 million of net income tax charges related to normal operations and the HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 46/149 Table of Contents Item 8 of Part II, effective at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we (a) excluded stock-based compensation expense from our segment earnings from operations; and (b) implemented certain organizational changes to align our segment financial reporting more closely with our current business structure. As a result of these organizational changes, our operations are now organized into six segments for financial reporting purposes: Compute, HPC & AI, Storage, Intelligent Edge, FS, and Corporate Investments and Other. The Corporate Investments and Other Segment now includes the A & PS operating segment, the Communications and Media Solutions operating segment, the Software operating segment, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Labs which is responsible for research and development. We reflected these changes in our segment information retrospectively to the earliest period presented, which primarily resulted in the realignment of net revenue and operating profit for each of the segments. These changes had no impact on Hewlett Packard Enterprise's previously reported consolidated results. found in Note 2, "Segment Information", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. (1) HPE consolidated net revenue excludes intersegment net revenue. (2) Segment earnings from operations exclude certain unallocated corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. currency fluctuations and an increase in average unit prices. The net revenue increase was partially offset by a decrease in unit shipments resulting from material constraints due to a challenging supply chain environment. As a result, we ended the period with a significantly higher level of order backlog. moderated by a revenue decline due to certain products approaching their end-of-life. Services net revenue was relatively unchanged from period to period. Net revenue $ 27,784  $ 12,292  $ 3,188  $ 4,763  $ 3,287  $ 3,401  $ 1,356  Year-over-year change % 3.0 % 0.1 % 2.7 % 1.7 % 15.1 % 1.5 % 4.5 % Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue 4.1 % 10.8 % 7.3 % 16.3 % 15.2 % 11.5 % (7.0) % Year-over-year change percentage points 5.3 pts 2.6 pts (1.9)pts (1.1)pts 3.4 pts 3.0 pts 8.9 pts For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 12,292  $ 12,285  $ 13,730  Earnings from operations $ 1,326  $ 1,007  $ 1,719  Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 10.8 % 8.2 % 12.5 % As described in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Compute net revenue increased by $7 million, or 0.1% (decreased 2.0% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to favorable https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 47/149 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 48/149 Table of Contents products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to favorable currency fluctuations, lower supply chain overhead costs from operational efficiencies, and disciplined pricing. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to cost savings from our transformation programs partially offset by higher employee compensation expense. pandemic on the demand environment as we experienced multiple factors including competitive pricing pressures, manufacturing capacity constraints in North America in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and unfavorable currency fluctuations. As a result, Compute experienced a decline in unit shipments and average unit selling prices. costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of products as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to competitive pricing pressures, unfavorable currency fluctuations, higher supply chain costs and the scale of the net revenue decline, partially offset by lower commodity costs and a favorable mix. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due to the scale of the net revenue decline as total operating expenses declined due primarily to lower spending resulting from our cost containment measures and lower variable compensation expense, partially offset by higher field selling costs. encountered in the prior year period resulting from the pandemic receded, such as delays with meeting customer milestones, and the demand environment improved. This resulted in net revenue growth in the Apollo and Cray product categories within HPC and growth in Edge Compute. Favorable currency fluctuations also added to the net revenue increase. These increases were moderated by revenue declines in Data Solutions and Services due to certain products approaching their end-of-life and lower support services, respectively. cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to a lower mix of revenue from services and higher-margin Data Solutions, while cost savings from our transformation programs moderated the increase. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to higher field selling costs and employee compensation expense, while cost savings from our transformation programs moderated the increase. revenue in HPC from the addition of product and services revenue resulting from the acquisition of Cray, partially offset by a revenue decline in Edge Compute and Data Solutions. operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue partially offset by lower cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to an improved product mix resulting from Cray. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due to the addition of operating expenses from Cray. For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 3,188  $ 3,105  $ 2,983  Earnings from operations $ 234  $ 285  $ 365  Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 7.3 % 9.2 % 12.2 % Compute earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 2.6 percentage points due to decreases in costs of Compute net revenue decreased by $1.4 billion, or 10.5% (decreased 9.4% on a constant currency basis) due to the impact of the Compute earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 4.3 percentage points due primarily to an increase in HPC & AI net revenue increased by $83 million or 2.7% (increased 1.8% on a constant currency basis) as the challenges HPC & AI earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 1.9 percentage points primarily due to increases in HPC & AI net revenue increased by $122 million, or 4.1% (increased 4.4% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to higher HPC & AI earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 3.0 percentage points due to an increase in HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 49/149 Table of Contents transition to more services, and software-rich offerings. The net revenue increase was led by favorable currency fluctuations, growth in Storage services and incremental revenue from the Zerto acquisition. Net revenue in Storage products was unchanged as growth from HPE Primera products, Traditional Storage and Nimble Storage was offset by revenue declines in SimpliVity and HPE 3PAR, while we are transitioning to the next-generation HPE Primera and HPE Alletra product set. expenses as a percentage of net revenue, partially offset by a decrease in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to a favorable mix of higher-margin HPE Primera and Big Data products, and improved operational efficiencies achieved through our transformation programs, the effects of which were partially offset by higher fixed overhead costs as a percentage of net revenue. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased across all functions due to higher employee compensation expense and planned investments in our cloud data services. impact of the pandemic on the demand environment as we experienced commodity and manufacturing capacity constraints in North America in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and lower revenue from the expiration of a one-time legacy contract, partially offset by higher revenue from Big Data. product and services as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to a combination of factors including competitive pricing pressures, increased cost of products due to higher fixed overhead cost, and unfavorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by lower cost of services due to delivery efficiencies. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to the scale of the net revenue decline while total operating expenses declined due to lower field selling costs amid lower spending resulting from our cost containment measures. Intelligent Edge   For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 4,763  $ 4,685  $ 5,255  Earnings from operations $ 778  $ 813  $ 1,009  Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 16.3 % 17.4 % 19.2 % Net revenue $ 3,287  $ 2,855  $ 2,913  Earnings from operations $ 500  $ 337  $ 216  Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 15.2 % 11.8 % 7.4 % Storage net revenue increased by $78 million, or 1.7% (decreased 0.1% on a constant currency basis) as we continue our Storage earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 1.1 percentage points due to an increase in operating Storage net revenue decreased by $570 million, or 10.8% (decreased 9.9% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the Storage earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 1.8 percentage points due to an increase in cost of HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 50/149 Table of Contents product and services revenue due to an improved demand environment in the current period, the addition of revenue from Silver Peak and favorable currency fluctuations. The increase in product revenue was led by the Switching and WLAN product categories. The increase in services revenue was led by higher attached support services and increased as-a-service offerings. decreases in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower product costs in Switching and WLAN and addition of higher-margin Silver Peak activity. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to improved operational efficiencies including cost savings from transformation programs, while higher employee compensation expense and the addition of expenses from Silver Peak moderated the decrease. weak market demand, competitive pricing pressures and unfavorable currency fluctuations. As a result, we experienced lower revenue from WLAN, switching products, and software offerings. These declines were partially offset by an increase in net revenue due to higher service renewals. operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue coupled with lower cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to a favorable mix of revenue from services and lower costs of switching products, partially offset by higher logistics cost. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower spending as a result of cost containment measures, partially offset by higher variable compensation expense. currency fluctuations, partially offset by a decrease in rental revenue due to lower average operating lease assets, along with lower asset management revenue from lease buyouts. services as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease to cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulted primarily from lower borrowing costs while operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue remained relatively flat. rental revenue due to lower average operating leases assets and lower lease equipment buyout revenue, along with unfavorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by higher revenue from lease extensions. operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, partially offset by lower cost of services as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease to cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulted from lower depreciation expense and borrowing costs, partially offset by higher bad debt expense. The increase to operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower capitalized initial direct costs as a result of adopting the new lease accounting standard. For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 3,401  $ 3,352  $ 3,581  Earnings from operations $ 390  $ 284  $ 310  Earnings from operations as a % of net revenue 11.5 % 8.5 % 8.7 % Intelligent Edge net revenue increased by $432 million, or 15.1% (increased 12.8% on a constant currency basis) from growth in Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 3.4 percentage points due primarily to Intelligent Edge net revenue decreased by $58 million, or 2.0% (decreased 1.2% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 4.4 percentage points due to a decrease in FS net revenue increased by $49 million, or 1.5% (decreased 0.9% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to favorable FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 3.0 percentage points due primarily to lower cost of FS net revenue decreased by $229 million, or 6.4% (decreased 5.2% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to a decrease in FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 0.2 percentage points due primarily to an increase in HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 51/149 Table of Contents services, including intercompany activity, increased by 2.7% in fiscal 2021 and decreased 3.1% in fiscal 2020 as compared to the prior- year periods. The increase in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by favorable currency fluctuations, along with higher financing associated with third-party product sales and related service offerings. The decrease in fiscal 2020 was primarily related to lower financing associated with both third-party and HPE product sales and related service offerings, along with unfavorable currency fluctuations. services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from our internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive FS amounts are substantially the same as those used by the Company. However, intercompany loans and certain accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. (1) Intercompany activity is eliminated in consolidation. (2) Allowance for credit losses for financing receivables includes both the short- and long-term portions. (3) Debt benefiting FS consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt, and borrowing- and funding-related activity associated with FS and its subsidiaries. Debt benefiting FS totaled $11.9 billion and $11.7 billion at October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and was determined by applying an assumed debt-to-equity ratio, which management believes to be comparable to that of other similar financing companies. FS equity at both October 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020 was $1.7 billion. favorable currency fluctuations, largely offset by portfolio runoff exceeding new financing volume during the period. operating leases. FS recorded net bad debt expense of $95 million, $93 million and $75 million in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of October 31,   2021 2020   Dollars in millions Financing receivables, gross $ 9,198  $ 9,058  Net equipment under operating leases 4,001  4,027  Capitalized profit on intercompany equipment transactions 275  315  Intercompany leases 96  92  Gross portfolio assets 13,570  13,492  Allowance for doubtful accounts 228  154  Operating lease equipment reserve 39  64  Total reserves 267  218  Net portfolio assets $ 13,303  $ 13,274  Reserve coverage 2.0 % 1.6 % Debt-to-equity ratio 7.0x 7.0x Financing Volume As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, FS net cash and cash equivalents were $898 million and $729 million, respectively. Net portfolio assets as of October 31, 2021 increased 0.2% from October 31, 2020. The increase generally resulted from https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 52/149 Table of Contents a limited impact to collections from customers as a result of the pandemic. We are currently unable to fully predict the extent to which the pandemic may adversely impact future collections of our receivables. due to favorable currency fluctuations and higher revenue from Communications and Media Solutions ("CMS") and Software. primarily to a decrease in cost of services and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to service delivery and overhead efficiencies achieved through our transformation programs. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower spending resulting from cost containment measures. due to higher revenue from Software partially offset by lower revenue from A & PS and CMS, and unfavorable currency fluctuations. decrease in costs of services and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to service delivery and overhead efficiencies achieved through our transformation programs. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower spending resulting from our cost containment measures. generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, product development initiatives, acquisition and disposal activities including legal settlements, restructuring activities, transformation costs, indemnifications, maturing debt, interest payments, and income tax payments, in addition to any future investments, share repurchases, and stockholder dividend payments. We expect to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, by accessing the capital markets, issuing commercial paper, and borrowing under credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. However, our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions. We anticipate that the available funds and cash generated from operations along with our access to capital markets will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months. We continue to monitor the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the U.S. and other global economies, the capital markets, consumer behavior, our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and market risks identified in the section entitled "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in Item 7A, each of which is incorporated herein by reference. For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   Dollars in millions Net revenue $ 1,356  $ 1,298  $ 1,288  Loss from operations $ (95) $ (206) $ (314) Loss from operations as a % of net revenue (7.0)% (15.9)% (24.4)% As of October 31, 2021, FS experienced an increase in billed finance receivables compared to October 31, 2020, which included Corporate Investments and Other net revenue increased by $58 million, or 4.5% (increased 2.5% on a constant currency basis) Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 8.9 percentage points due Corporate Investments and Other net revenue increased by $10 million, or 0.8% (increased 1.2% on a constant currency basis) Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 8.5 percentage points due to a We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows will be HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 53/149 Table of Contents October 31, 2021. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. outside the U.S. generally will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state income or foreign withholding tax. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is to keep cash balances outside of the U.S. and to meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We do not expect restrictions or potential taxes incurred on repatriation of amounts held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. our Board of Directors, were temporarily suspended in April, 2020. We resumed our share repurchase program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and settled $213 million of our stock. As of October 31, 2021, we had a remaining authorization of $1.9 billion for future share repurchases. For more information on our share repurchase program, refer to Note 15, "Stockholders' Equity", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. due primarily to higher earnings, which includes a $2.2 billion litigation judgment.   As of October 31,   2021 2020 2019   In millions Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 4,332 $ 4,621 $ 4,076  Total debt $ 13,448 $ 15,941 $ 13,820  Available borrowing resources $ 6,017 $ 6,297 $ 5,639 Cash conversion cycle 3  (7) (22) Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with a substantial amount held outside the U.S as of Amounts held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support our non-U.S. liquidity needs. Repatriations of amounts held Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.6 billion, for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 54/149 Table of Contents particular period to differ include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms (including extended payment terms to customers or from suppliers), early or late invoice payments from customers or to suppliers, the extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends, the timing of sales and inventory purchases within the period, the impact of commodity costs and acquisition activity. receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average of net revenue. For fiscal 2021, as compared to the prior-year period, DSO increased due primarily to a decrease in early payments and factoring, extended payments terms and unfavorable billing linearity. inventory by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. For fiscal 2021, as compared to the prior-year period, the DOS increased due primarily to higher levels of inventory resulting from a combination of supply chain constraints, positioning of inventory to fulfill planned future shipments and strategic purchases of certain key components. accounts payable by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. For fiscal 2021, as compared to the prior-year period, DPO increased due primarily to higher inventory purchases for planned future shipments and extended payment terms. primarily due to higher cash utilized for investment in property, plant and equipment, net of sales proceeds of $0.5 billion and higher cash utilized in net financial collateral activities of $0.1 billion, partially offset by lower payments made in connection with business acquisitions, net of $0.4 billion. due primarily to lower proceeds from debt issuance of $4.0 billion, higher cash utilized for debt repayment of $0.4 billion and lower cash utilized for share repurchase of $0.1 billion. sale of property, plant and equipment. In fiscal 2021, free cash flow does not include $2.2 billion of after-tax cash impact from Oracle’s satisfaction of the judgment in the Itanium litigation. Free cash flow increased by $1.0 billion in fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was due to higher cash generated from operations and improved net working capital moderated by increased cash used for investments in property, plant and equipment, net of sales proceeds. invest in our business to drive growth and return capital to shareholders. Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,871  $ 2,240  $ 3,997  Litigation judgment, net of taxes paid (2,172) —  — The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing ending DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending Net cash used in investing activities increased by $0.2 billion in fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The change was Net cash generated in financing activities decreased by $4.2 billion in fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease was https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 55/149 Table of Contents requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. Note 14, "Borrowings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Commercial Paper Our U.S. program provides for the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $4.75 billion which was increased from $4.0 billion in March 2020. Our euro commercial paper program provides for the issuance of commercial paper outside of the U.S. denominated in U.S. dollars, euros or British pounds up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $3.0 billion or the equivalent in those alternative currencies. The combined aggregate principal amount of commercial paper outstanding under those programs at any one time cannot exceed $4.75 billion as authorized by our Board of Directors. In addition, our subsidiary's euro Commercial Paper/Certificate of Deposit Program provides for the issuance of commercial paper in various currencies of up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. As of October 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under the Parent Programs, and $705 million and $677 million, respectively, were outstanding under our subsidiary's program. During fiscal 2021, we issued $757 million and repaid $728 million of commercial paper. the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 13, "Financial Instruments", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. any time and from time to time, in one or more offerings, debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, purchase contracts, guarantees or units consisting of any of these securities. under the revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including support of the commercial paper program. Commitments under the Credit Agreement are available for a period of five years, which period may be extended, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, by up to two, one-year periods. Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facility vary based on Hewlett Packard Enterprise's external credit rating. As of October 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Agreement. As of October 31,   2021 2020 2019   In millions Short-term debt $ 3,552  $ 3,755  $ 4,425  Long-term debt $ 9,896  $ 12,186  $ 9,395  Weighted-average interest rate 2.9 % 3.2 % 4.1 % We maintain two commercial paper programs, "the Parent Programs", and a wholly-owned subsidiary maintains a third program. We maintain a $4.75 billion five year senior unsecured committed credit facility that was entered into in August 2019. Loans HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 56/149 Table of Contents Note 14, "Borrowings", and Note 7, "Balance Sheet Details", respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. Hence we do not currently expect changes to our contractual cash and other obligations to significantly impact our free cash flow expectations. (1) Amounts represent the principal cash payments relating to our long-term debt, including current portion of long-term debt, and do not include fair value adjustments, discounts or premiums and debt issuance costs. As of October 31, 2021, the future principal payments related to asset-backed debt securities were expected to be $1.2 billion in fiscal 2022, $0.7 billion in fiscal 2023 and $0.2 billion in fiscal 2024. For more information on our debt, see Note 14, "Borrowings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. (2) Amounts represent the expected interest payments relating to our long-term debt. We use interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of our fixed rate debt to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates, or hedge the variability of cash flows in the interest payments associated with our variable-rate debt. The impact of our outstanding interest rate swaps at October 31, 2021 was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. (3) Amounts include uncommenced operating leases as of fiscal 2021 and do not reflect imputed interest adjustments. (4) For additional information on our Unconditional Purchase Obligations, see Note 19, "Commitments", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. (5) In fiscal 2022, we anticipate making contributions of $199 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. Our policy is to fund pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by various authorities including local government and taxing authorities. Expected contributions and payments to our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are excluded from the contractual obligations table because they do not represent contractual cash outflows, as they are dependent on numerous factors which may result in a wide range of outcomes. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, "Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. (6) As of October 31, 2021, we expect future cash payments of approximately $0.8 billion in connection with our approved restructuring plans, which includes $0.5 billion expected to be paid in fiscal 2022 and $0.3 billion expected to be paid thereafter. Payments for restructuring activities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table, because they do not represent contractual cash In fiscal 2020 the total of our contractual cash and other obligations was $20.8 billion and in fiscal 2021 totals $17.9 billion. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 57/149 Table of Contents (7) As of October 31, 2021, we had approximately $428 million of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions. These liabilities and related interest and penalties include $68 million expected to be paid within one year. For the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, "Taxes on Earnings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. certain customers. For more information on our third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, "Balance Sheet Details", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. segment earnings from operations results and excluded stock-based compensation expense from non-GAAP results. The Company has reflected this change retrospectively to its financial results for the earliest period presented. This change had no impact on Hewlett Packard Enterprise's previously reported consolidated GAAP results. However, the Company reflected the change resulting from the reclassification of its stock-based compensation expense by restating its consolidated non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net earnings per share. outflows and there is uncertainty as to the timing of these payments. For more information on our restructuring activities, see Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 58/149 Table of Contents per share. (1) Represents the amortization of basis difference adjustments related to the H3C divestiture. operating profit margin. GAAP net earnings (loss) $ 3,427 $ 2.58 $ (322) $ (0.25) Non-GAAP adjustments: Non-GAAP net earnings $ 2,602 $ 1.96 $ 2,005 $ 1.54 GAAP earnings (loss) from operations $ 1,132  4.1 % $ (329) (1.2)% Non-GAAP adjustments: Non-GAAP earnings from operations $ 2,848  10.3 % $ 2,282  8.5 % Amortization of initial direct costs 8  0.01  10  0.01  Amortization of intangible assets 354  0.27  379  0.29  Impairment of goodwill —  —  865  0.67  Transformation costs 930  0.70  950  0.74  Disaster charges 16  0.01  26  0.02  Stock-based compensation expense 372  0.28  274  0.21  Acquisition, disposition and other related charges 36  0.03  107  0.08  Tax indemnification and related adjustments (65) (0.05) 101  0.08  Non-service net periodic benefit credit (70) (0.05) (136) (0.11) Litigation judgment (2,351) (1.78) —  —  Early debt redemption costs 100  0.08  —  —  Earnings from equity interests 109  0.08  145  0.11  Adjustments for taxes (264) (0.20) (394) (0.31) Amortization of initial direct costs 8  — % 10  — % Amortization of intangible assets 354  1.3 % 379  1.4 % Impairment of goodwill —  — % 865  3.2 % Transformation costs 930  3.3 % 950  3.5 % Disaster charges 16  0.1 % 26  0.1 % Stock-based compensation expense 372  1.3 % 274  1.0 % Acquisition, disposition and other related charges 36  0.1 % 107  0.4 % Reconciliation of GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share to non-GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 59/149 Table of Contents (1) Represent charges related to a non-cash inventory fair value adjustment in connection with the acquisition of Cray, which was included in Cost of Sales. gross profit margin, non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue), non- GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share and free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by management for purposes of evaluating our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as evaluating our performance relative to our competitors. These non-GAAP financial measures are not computed in accordance with, or as an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to net revenue on a constant currency basis is net revenue. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit is gross profit. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit margin is gross profit margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP earnings from operations is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non- GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) is operating profit margin (Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue). The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash flow from operations and free cash flow, each excluding litigation judgment, net of taxes paid, is cash flow from operations. gross profit and non-GAAP gross profit margin is defined to exclude charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, stock- based compensation expense and certain acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Non-GAAP earnings from operations and non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net GAAP Net revenue $ 27,784  100 % $ 26,982  100 % GAAP Cost of sales 18,408  66.3 % 18,513  68.7 % GAAP gross profit $ 9,376  33.7 % $ 8,469  31.4 % Non-GAAP adjustments Non-GAAP gross profit $ 9,424  33.9 % $ 8,543  31.7 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,871 $ 2,240  Litigation judgment, net of taxes paid (2,172) —  Net cash provided by operating activities, excluding litigation judgment, net of taxes paid 3,699  2,240  Investment in property, plant and equipment (2,502) (2,383) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 354  703  Free cash flow $ 1,551 $ 560  Stock-based compensation expense 40  0.2 % 37  0.2 % Amortization of initial direct costs 8  — % 10  — % Acquisition, disposition and other related charges —  — % 27  0.1 % Reconciliation of GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin to non-GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin. Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Net revenue on a constant currency basis assumes no change in the foreign exchange rate from the prior-year period. Non-GAAP HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 60/149 Table of Contents revenue) consist of earnings from operations excluding any charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges, stock-based compensation expense and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Non-GAAP net earnings and Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges, as well as items such as tax indemnification and related adjustments, non- service net periodic benefit credit, litigation judgment, early debt redemption costs, earnings from equity interests, certain income tax valuation allowances and separation taxes, the impact of U.S. tax reform, structural rate adjustment and excess tax benefit from stock- based compensation. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefits associated with each non-GAAP item. We believe that excluding the items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance in relation to the operating results of our segments. Management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results, and excluding them facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance in comparison to our peers. The excluded items can be inconsistent in amount and frequency and/or not reflective of the operational performance of the business. isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are that they can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measures, they may be calculated differently by other companies and may not reflect the full economic effect of the loss in value of certain assets. using non-GAAP financial measures only as a supplement. We also provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure. We believe that providing net revenue on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share in addition to the related GAAP measures provides greater transparency to the information used in our financial and operational decision making and allows the reader of our Consolidated Financial Statements to see our financial results “through the eyes” of management. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 61/149 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. financial position and results of operations. Our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. We use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. Accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. Our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. purchases, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We transact business in approximately 50 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2021 were the euro, Japanese yen, British pound, and Chinese yuan (renminbi). For most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currency. Even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker U.S. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for U.S. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. Alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, with all other variables held constant. The analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. The foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at October 31, 2021 and 2020. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $35 million and $29 million at October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. issue long-term debt in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. dollar based floating or fixed interest expense. The swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. However, in circumstances where we believe additional fixed-rate debt would be beneficial, we may choose to terminate a previously executed swap, or swap certain floating interest payments to fixed. returns into variable interest returns. We may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of interest income received on certain variable-rate investments, by entering into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. The analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. The analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. The discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at October 31, 2021 and 2020. The sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our We also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued, our investment portfolio and financing receivables. We often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve U.S. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 62/149 Table of Contents debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $58 million and $47 million at October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 63/149 Table of Contents ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 64/149 Table of Contents Company) as of October 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2021, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at October 31, 2021 and 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2021, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated December 10, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 65/149 Table of Contents We have served as the Company's auditor since 2014. San Jose, California December 10, 2021 Description of the matter At October 31, 2021, the Company’s goodwill was $18.3 billion. As discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level and more frequently when warranted based on indicators of impairment. Auditing management’s goodwill impairment test was complex and highly judgmental due to the significant estimation required to determine the fair value of the reporting units, particularly for an individual reporting unit with a fair value only marginally in excess of carrying value. In particular, the fair value estimate was sensitive to significant assumptions, such as changes in the weighted average cost of capital, revenue growth rate, operating margin and terminal value, which are affected by expectations about future market or economic conditions. Description of the matter As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company recognizes revenue for sales to its customers after deducting management’s estimates of variable consideration which may include various rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs that are offered to customers, partners and distributors. Estimated variable consideration is presented within other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and totaled $1.0 billion at October 31, 2021. Auditing the estimates of variable consideration was complex and judgmental due to the level of uncertainty involved in management’s estimate of expected usage of these programs. We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s goodwill impairment review process, including controls over management’s review of the significant assumptions described above. To test the estimated fair value of the Company’s reporting units, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, assessing methodologies and testing the significant assumptions discussed above and the underlying data used by the Company in its analysis. We compared the significant assumptions used by management to current industry and economic trends and evaluated whether changes to the Company’s business model, product mix and other factors would affect the significant assumptions. We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates and performed sensitivity analyses of significant assumptions to evaluate the changes in the fair value of the reporting units that would result from changes in the assumptions. In addition, we tested management’s reconciliation of the fair value of the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Company. We involved our valuation professionals to evaluate the application of valuation methodologies in the Company’s annual impairment test. We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process for estimating variable consideration, including controls over management’s review of the significant assumptions described above. To test the Company’s determination of variable consideration we performed audit procedures that included, among others, evaluating the methodologies, testing the significant assumptions discussed above and testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used by the Company in its analyses. We compared the significant assumptions to historical experience of the Company to develop an expectation of the variable consideration associated with product remaining in the distribution channel at October 31, 2021, which we compared to management’s recorded amount. In addition, we inspected the underlying agreements and compared the incentive rates used in the Company’s analyses with contractual rates. We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates by comparing previous estimates of variable consideration to the amount of actual payments in subsequent periods. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 66/149 Table of Contents 31, 2021, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2021, based on the COSO criteria. assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Zerto, Ltd., which is included in the 2021 consolidated financial statements of the Company and constituted less than 1% of total assets as of October 31, 2021 and less than 1% and 1% of net revenues and net earnings, respectively, for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Zerto, Ltd. (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of October 31, 2021 and 2020, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2021, and the related notes and our report dated December 10, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 67/149 Table of Contents reporting for Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Hewlett Packard Enterprise; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of Hewlett Packard Enterprise are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of Hewlett Packard Enterprise; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. financial reporting as of October 31, 2021, utilizing the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Management's evaluation of internal control over financial reporting excluded the internal control activities of Zerto Ltd., which is included in the 2021 consolidated financial statements of Hewlett Packard Enterprise and constituted less than 1% of total assets as of October 31, 2021 and less than 1% and 1% of net revenue and net earnings, respectively, for the year then ended. Based on the assessment by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management, we determined that Hewlett Packard Enterprise's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2021. The effectiveness of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2021 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, Hewlett Packard Enterprise's independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report on the preceding pages. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, /s/ ANTONIO F. NERI /s/ TAREK A. ROBBIATI Antonio F. Neri President and Chief Executive Officer Tarek A. Robbiati Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 68/149 Table of Contents Weighted-average shares used to compute net earnings (loss) per share:        Basic $ 2.62  $ (0.25) $ 0.78  Products $ 17,011  $ 16,264  $ 18,170  Services 10,279  10,249  10,507  Financing income 494  469  458 Diluted $ 2.58 $ (0.25) $ 0.77 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 69/149 Table of Contents The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 70/149 Table of Contents HPE stockholders' equity: Common stock, $0.01 par value (9,600 shares authorized; 1,295 and 1,287 issued and outstanding at October 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020, respectively) 13  13 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 71/149 Table of Contents The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 72/149 67 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 73/149 Table of Contents Cash dividends declared ($0.4575 per common share) (601) (601) (601) Effects of adoption of accounting standard updates  (2,181) (2,181) (2,181) Cash dividends declared ($0.36 per common share) (464) (464) (16) (480) Effects of adoption of accounting standard updates  43  (43) —  — https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 74/149 Table of Contents (1) For fiscal 2019, includes $2.3 billion related to an addition to accumulated deficit as a result of the adoption of an accounting standard update for Cash dividends declared ($0.48 per common share) (625) (625) (10) (635) Effects of adoption of accounting standard updates  (25) (25) (25) Income Taxes and $124 million related to a reduction to accumulated deficit as a result of the adoption of the new revenue accounting standard. tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive loss to accumulated deficit. receivables. (3) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 75/149 Table of Contents focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. Hewlett Packard Enterprise enables customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's customers range from small- and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") to large global enterprises and governmental entities. and protection for a fair value consideration of $416 million. Zerto's results of operations were included within the Storage segment from the date of acquisition. This acquisition expands HPE GreenLake and further enables the shift of the Storage segment toward more cloud-native and software-defined data services solutions. For further discussion on this acquisition, refer to Note 10, "Acquisitions". Itanium litigation. The gain was recognized as other income and presented as Litigation judgment in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For further discussion on this litigation judgment, refer to Note 17, “Litigation and Contingencies". which the Company has a controlling financial interest or is the primary beneficiary. All intercompany transactions and accounts within the consolidated businesses of the Company have been eliminated. beneficiary of the entity's operation. The primary beneficiary is the party that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In evaluating whether the Company is the primary beneficiary, the Company evaluates its power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE by considering the purpose and design of the entity and the risks the entity was designed to create and pass through to its variable interest holders. The Company also evaluates its economic interests in the VIE. hold a controlling interest under the equity method of accounting, and the Company records its proportionate share of income or losses in Earnings (loss) from equity interests in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Sheets. Net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are recorded within Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and are not presented separately, as they were not material for any periods presented. ("HPC & MCS") to High Performance Computing and Artificial Intelligence ("HPC & AI"). financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. These organizational changes are: (i) the transfer of the lifecycle event services business, previously reported within the Advisory and Professional Services ("A & PS") reportable segment to the Compute, Storage and HPC & AI reportable segments; (ii) the transfer of certain software and related services businesses, previously reported within the Compute, Storage and A & PS reportable segments to the Corporate Investments and Other reportable segment, to form a new Software operating segment; and (iii) the transfer of the remaining A & PS operating In August 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Zerto Ltd. ("Zerto"), an industry leader in cloud data management In October 2021, the Company received $2.35 billion which represents Oracle Corporation’s satisfaction of the judgment in the The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 76/149 Table of Contents segment, previously reported as a separate reportable segment, to the Corporate Investments and Other reportable segment. As a result of these changes, the Corporate Investments and Other Segment now includes the A & PS operating segment, the Communications and Media Solutions operating segment, the Software operating segment, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Labs which is responsible for research and development. expense from its segment earnings from operations. resulted in the realignment of net revenue, operating profit and total assets for each of the segments as described above. These changes had no impact on Hewlett Packard Enterprise’s previously reported consolidated net revenue, net earnings, net earnings per share ("EPS") or total assets. For further discussion on the Company's segments, refer to Note 2, "Segment Information". amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are assessed each period and updated to reflect current information, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, net periodic benefit costs, restructuring accruals, provision for taxes, valuation allowance for deferred taxes, provision for expected credit losses, inventory reserves, and impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. The Company believes that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, and are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company's control. Should any of these estimates change, it could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. currencies are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates for monetary assets and liabilities and at historical exchange rates for non-monetary assets and liabilities. Net revenue, costs and expenses denominated in non-U.S. currencies are recorded in U.S. dollars at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the period. The Company includes gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings and gains and losses from cash flow hedges in Net revenue as the hedged revenue is recognized. Certain non-U.S. subsidiaries designate the local currency as their functional currency, and the Company records the translation of their assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at the balance sheet date as translation adjustments and includes them as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents was not material for any of the fiscal years presented. perform, each party's rights including payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collection of consideration is probable. arrangements containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. The Company determines whether each product or service is distinct in order to identify the performance obligations in the contract and allocate the contract transaction price among the distinct performance obligations. Arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether the commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract. The Company classifies its hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service ("SaaS") as distinct performance obligations. Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance. In transactions where the Company delivers hardware or software, it is typically the principal and records revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis. recognized when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled, in exchange for those products or services. Variable The Company predominately uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. Assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 77/149 Table of Contents consideration offered in contracts with customers, partners and distributors may include rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs. Variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available and recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer. Transfer of control can also occur over time for maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term. The Company's hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided. SaaS arrangements have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services. On its product sales, the Company records consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales. Revenue is recorded net of any associated sales taxes. price basis. The standalone selling price ("SSP") is the price at which an entity would sell a promised product or service separately to a customer. The Company establishes SSP for most of its products and services based on the observable price of the products or services when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. When the SSP is not directly observable, the Company estimates SSP based on management judgment by considering available data such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs. The Company establishes SSP ranges for its products and services and reassesses them periodically. when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Variable consideration may include various rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs that are offered to customers, partners and distributors. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, the Company estimates the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and updates the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. The Company also considers the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. unconditional. A contract asset is a right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a customer that is conditional on something other than the passage of time. A receivable is recorded when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. advance of billings. Unbilled receivables generally relate to services contracts where a service has been performed and control has transferred, but invoicing to the customer is subject to future milestone billings or other contractual payment schedules. The Company classifies unbilled receivables as Accounts receivable. consideration, or the amount is due, from the customer. The Company's contract liabilities primarily consist of deferred revenue. Deferred revenue is recorded when amounts invoiced to customers are in excess of revenue that can be recognized because performance obligations have not been satisfied and control of the promised products or services has not transferred to the customer. Deferred revenue largely represents amounts invoiced in advance for product (hardware/software) support contracts, consulting projects and product sales where revenue cannot be recognized yet. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 78/149 Table of Contents Company expects to recover those costs. The Company has elected, as a practical expedient, to expense the costs of obtaining a contract as incurred for contracts with terms of one year or less. The typical amortization periods used range from two to five years. The Company periodically reviews the capitalized sales commission costs for possible impairment losses. The amortization of capitalized costs to obtain a contract are included in Selling, general and administrative expense. Refer to Note 7, "Balance Sheet Details" for additional information. awards expected to meet the service and performance vesting conditions. Stock-based compensation expense for stock options and restricted stock units with only a service condition is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award. For stock options and restricted stock units with both a service condition and a performance or market condition, the expense is recognized on a graded vesting basis over the requisite service period of the award. Stock-based compensation expense is determined at the aggregate grant level for service-based awards and at the individual vesting tranche level for awards with performance and/or market conditions. The forfeiture rate is estimated based on historical experience. costs and obligations for these plans depend on various assumptions. Major assumptions relate primarily to discount rates, mortality rates, expected increases in compensation levels and the expected long-term return on plan assets. These assumptions vary by plan, and the weighted-average rates used are set forth in Note 4, "Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans". to the expected benefits payment period. Mortality rates help predict the expected life of plan participants and are based on a historical demographic study of the plan. The expected increase in the compensation levels assumption reflects long-term actual experience and future expectations. The expected long-term return on plan assets is determined based on asset allocations, historical portfolio results, historical asset correlations and management's expected returns for each asset class. In any fiscal year, significant differences may arise between the actual return and the expected long-term return on plan assets. Historically, differences between the actual return and expected long-term return on plan assets have resulted from changes in target or actual asset allocation, short-term performance relative to expected long-term performance, and to a lesser extent, differences between target and actual investment allocations, the timing of benefit payments compared to expectations, and the use of derivatives intended to effect asset allocation changes or hedge certain investment or liability exposures. estimated service life or, in the case of closed plans, life expectancy of participants. In limited cases, actuarial gains and losses are amortized using the corridor approach. The Company includes costs related to shipping and handling in Cost of products. The Company has various defined benefit, other contributory and noncontributory, retirement and post-retirement plans. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 79/149 Table of Contents the advertising is first run. Advertising expense totaled approximately $172 million in fiscal 2021, $143 million in fiscal 2020, and $188 million in fiscal 2019. severance costs to eliminate a specified number of employees, infrastructure charges to vacate facilities and consolidate operations, and contract cancellation costs. These restructuring actions require management to estimate the timing and amount of severance and other employee separation costs for workforce reduction and enhanced early retirement programs, the fair value of assets made redundant or obsolete, and the value of lease and contract cancellation and other exit costs. The Company records restructuring charges based on estimated employee terminations and site closure and consolidation plans. The Company accrues for severance and other employee separation costs under these actions when it is probable that benefits will be paid and the amount is reasonably estimable. The rates used in determining severance accruals are based on existing plans, historical experiences and negotiated settlements. For a full description of our restructuring actions, refer to our discussions in Note 3, "Transformation Programs". the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year the differences are expected to reverse. realized. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the Company considers future market growth, forecasted earnings, future sources of taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In the event the Company were to determine that it is more likely than not that the Company will be unable to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, the Company would increase the valuation allowance and recognize a corresponding charge to earnings in the period in which such a determination was made. Likewise, if the Company later determines that the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized, the Company would reverse the applicable portion of the previously recognized valuation allowance. In order for the Company to realize deferred tax assets, the Company must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The provision for income taxes includes the effects of adjustments for uncertain tax positions as well as any related interest and penalties. The Company recognizes interest income from favorable settlements and interest expense and penalties accrued on unrecognized tax benefits in (Provision) benefit for taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. taxes on future GILTI inclusions in U.S. taxable income as a current period expense when incurred. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company may record a specific reserve for individual accounts when the Company becomes aware of specific customer circumstances, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing or deterioration in the customer's operating results or financial position. If there are additional changes in circumstances related to the specific customer, the Company further adjusts estimates of the recoverability of receivables. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses for all other customers based on a variety of factors, including the use of third-party credit risk models that generate quantitative measures of default probabilities based on market factors, the financial condition of customers and the length of time receivables are past due. These qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management judgment. The past due or delinquency status of a receivable is based on the contractual payment terms of the receivable. The Company establishes an allowance for expected credit losses related to accounts receivable, including unbilled receivables. Costs to produce advertising are expensed as incurred during production. Costs to communicate advertising are expensed when The Company's transformation programs include charges to approved restructuring plans. Restructuring charges include The Company is subject to the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income ("GILTI") tax in the U.S. The Company elected to treat Accounts Receivable The allowance for expected credit losses related to accounts receivable is comprised of a general reserve and a specific reserve. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 80/149 Table of Contents The Company establishes a specific reserve for financing receivables with identified exposures, such as customer defaults, bankruptcy or other events, that make it unlikely the Company will recover its investment. For individually evaluated receivables, the Company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable, which includes consideration of estimated proceeds from disposition of the collateral and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts where a loss is considered probable, the Company records a specific reserve. The Company maintains a general reserve using a credit loss model on a regional basis and bases such percentages on several factors, including consideration of historical credit losses and portfolio delinquencies, trends in the overall weighted-average risk rating of the portfolio, current economic conditions, and forward-looking information, including reasonable and supportable forecasts. The Company excludes accounts evaluated as part of the specific reserve from the general reserve analysis. The Company generally writes off a receivable or records a specific reserve when a receivable becomes 180 days past due, or sooner if the Company determines that the receivable is not collectible. specified due date. The Company generally places financing receivables on non-accrual status, which is the suspension of interest accrual, and considers such receivables to be non-performing at the earlier of the time at which full payment of principal and interest becomes doubtful or the receivable becomes 90 days past due. Subsequently, the Company may recognize revenue on non-accrual financing receivables as payments are received, which is on a cash basis, if the Company deems the recorded financing receivable to be fully collectible; however, if there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of the recorded financing receivable, all cash receipts are applied to the carrying amount of the financing receivable, which is the cost recovery method. In certain circumstances, such as when the Company deems a delinquency to be of an administrative nature, financing receivables may accrue interest after becoming 90 days past due. The non-accrual status of a financing receivable may not impact a customer's risk rating. After all of a customer's delinquent principal and interest balances are settled, the Company may return the related financing receivable to accrual status. cash equivalents and restricted cash, investments, receivables from trade customers and contract manufacturers, financing receivables and derivatives. instruments with various financial institutions. These financial institutions are located in many different geographic regions, and the Company's policy is designed to limit exposure from any particular institution. As part of its risk management processes, the Company performs periodic evaluations of the relative credit standing of these financial institutions. The Company has not sustained material credit losses from instruments held at these financial institutions. The Company utilizes derivative contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Such contracts involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty, which could result in a material loss. For more details on the collateral program, see Note 13, "Financial Instruments". large number of entities comprising the Company's customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographic regions. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of the financial condition of its customers and may require collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees, in certain circumstances. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020 no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's receivable from trade customers and financing receivables. may purchase product components from suppliers and sell those components to its outsourced manufacturers thereby creating receivable balances from the outsourced manufacturers. The three largest outsourced manufacturer receivable balances collectively represented 92% and 89% of the Company's manufacturer receivables of $947 million and $687 million at October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company includes the manufacturer receivables in Other current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets on a gross basis. The Company's credit risk associated with these receivables is mitigated wholly or in part by the amount the Company owes to these outsourced manufacturers, as the Company generally has the legal right to offset its payables to the outsourced manufacturers against these receivables. The Company does not reflect the sale of these components in revenue and does not recognize any profit on these component sales until the manufactured products are sold by Financing Receivable The allowance for expected credit losses related to financing receivables is comprised of a general reserve and a specific reserve. The Company utilizes outsourced manufacturers around the world to manufacture company-designed products. The Company HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 81/149 Table of Contents the Company, at which time any profit is recognized as a reduction to cost of sales. The Company obtains certain components from single source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. The loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of the Company's relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which the Company is supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect the Company's revenue and gross margins. to cash received under the Company's collateral securities agreements for its derivative instruments and cash restricted under the fixed- term securitization program for the issuance of asset-backed debt securities. approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. At each reporting period, the Company assesses the value of its inventory and writes down the cost of inventory to its net realizable value if required, for estimated excess or obsolescence. Factors influencing these adjustments include changes in future demand forecasts, market conditions, technological changes, product life-cycle and development plans, component cost trends, product pricing, physical deterioration, and quality issues. The write down for excess or obsolescence is charged to the provision of inventory, which is a component of Cost of Products and Cost of Services in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. improvements and expenses maintenance and repairs as incurred. Depreciation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Estimated useful lives are five to 40 years for buildings and improvements and three to 15 years for machinery and equipment. The Company depreciates leasehold improvements over the life of the lease or the asset, whichever is shorter. The Company depreciates equipment held for lease over the initial term of the lease to the equipment's estimated residual value. The estimated useful lives of assets used solely to support a customer services contract generally do not exceed the term of the customer contract. On retirement or disposition, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets with any gain or loss recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. to software coding, designing system interfaces and installation and testing of the software. The Company amortizes capitalized internal use software costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the software, generally from three to five years. Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception. An arrangement contains a lease when the arrangement conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset over the lease term. Upon lease commencement, the Company records a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and right-of-use ("ROU") asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The lease liability is measured at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments not yet paid over the lease term and the Company's incremental borrowing rate. As most of the Company's leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses an incremental borrowing rate which approximates the rate at which the Company would borrow, on a secured basis, in the country where the lease was executed. The ROU asset is based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received, and the lessee's initial direct costs. Fixed payments are included in the recognition of ROU assets and liabilities, while non-lease components, such as maintenance or utility charges are expensed as incurred. The Company has agreements with lease and non-lease components that are accounted for separately and not included in its leased assets and corresponding liabilities for the majority of the Company's lease agreements. The Company allocates consideration to the lease and non-lease components using their relative standalone values. The Company values inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using standard cost which The Company states property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. The Company capitalizes additions and Lessee Accounting The Company enters into various leases as a lessee for assets including office buildings, data centers, vehicles, and aviation. The HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 82/149 Table of Contents term. Interest expense on the lease liability is recorded separately using the interest method. For operating leases, lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. payments that are based on an index are included in lease receivables. The Company allocates consideration amongst lease components and non-lease components on a relative standalone selling price basis, when lease arrangements include multiple performance obligations. At the end of the lease term, the Company allows the client to either return the equipment, purchase the equipment or renew the lease based on mutually agreed upon terms. market value. The residual amount is established prior to lease inception, based upon estimated equipment values at end of lease using product road map trends, historical analysis, future projections and remarketing experience. The Company's residual amounts are evaluated at least annually to assess the appropriateness of our carrying values. Any anticipated declines in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary would be recorded in current earnings. The Company is able to optimize the recovery of residual values by selling equipment in place, extending lease arrangements on a fixed term basis, entering into a monthly usage rental term beyond the initial lease term, and selling lease returned equipment in the secondary market. The contractual lease agreement also identifies return conditions that ensures the leased equipment will be in good operating condition upon return minus any normal wear and tear. During the residual review process, product changes, product updates, as well as market conditions are reviewed and adjustments if other than temporary are made to residual values in accordance with the impact of any such changes. The remarketing sales organization closely manages the sale of equipment lease returns to optimize the recovery of outstanding residual by product. the date of acquisition. The Company allocates the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired including in-process research and development ("IPR&D"), liabilities assumed, and non-controlling interests in the acquired entity based on their fair values at the acquisition date. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests in the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill. The primary items that generate goodwill include the value of the synergies between the acquired company and the Company and the value of the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies for recognition as an intangible asset. Acquisition-related expenses and post-acquisition restructuring costs are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. The Company performs a quantitative test for all of its reporting units as part of its annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. income approach, and to a lesser extent, the market approach with the exception of the Software reporting unit which uses a weighting derived most significantly from the market approach. Under the income approach, the Company estimates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows covering discrete forecast periods as well as terminal value determinations. The Company prepares cash flow projections based on management's estimates of revenue growth rates and operating margins, taking into consideration industry and market conditions. The Company bases the discount rate on the weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, the Company estimates fair value based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. The Company weights the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. When market comparables are not meaningful or not available, the Company estimates the fair value of a reporting unit using only the income approach. Lessor Accounting The Company's lease offerings are non-cancelable and the payment schedule primarily consists of fixed payments. Variable https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 83/149 Table of Contents impaired and no further testing is required. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, goodwill is impaired. The goodwill impairment loss is measured as the excess of the reporting unit's carrying value over its fair value (not to exceed the total goodwill allocated to that reporting unit). changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For lease assets such circumstances would include a decision to abandon the use of all or part of an asset, or subleases that do not fully recover the costs of the associated lease. The Company assesses the recoverability of assets based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the asset is impaired. The Company measures the amount of impairment loss, if any, as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value using an income approach or, when available and appropriate, using a market approach. The Company amortizes intangible assets with finite lives using the straight-line method over the estimated economic lives of the assets, ranging from one to ten years. significant influence, but does not have a controlling financial interest. The Company records its interest in the net earnings of its equity method investees, along with adjustments for unrealized profits or losses on intra-entity transactions and amortization of basis differences, within Earnings or loss from equity interests in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Profits or losses related to intra- entity sales with its equity method investees are eliminated until realized by the investor or investee. Basis differences represent differences between the cost of the investment and the underlying equity in net assets of the investment and are generally amortized over the lives of the related assets that gave rise to them. Equity method goodwill is not amortized or tested for impairment; instead the equity method investment is tested for impairment. The Company records its interest in the net earnings of its equity method investments based on the most recently available financial statements of the investees. received and other-than-temporary impairments. The Company reviews for impairment whenever factors indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. In such a case, the decrease in value is recognized in the period the impairment occurs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. those that result in consolidation of the investee) are measured at fair value and any changes in fair value are recognized in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For equity investments without readily determinable fair values, the Company has elected to use the fair value option or apply the measurement alternative, under which investments are measured at cost, less impairment, and adjusted for qualifying observable price changes on a prospective basis. The Company reviews for impairment at each reporting period, assessing factors such as deterioration of earnings, adverse change in market/industry conditions, the ability to operate as a going concern, and other factors which indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. In such a case, the decrease in value is recognized in the period the impairment occurs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. applicable taxes, recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Realized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and included in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The Company monitors its investment portfolio for potential impairment on a quarterly basis. When the carrying amount of an investment in debt securities exceeds its fair value and the decline in value is determined to be due to credit-related factors, the Company recognizes the impairment using an allowance for credit loss in Interest and other, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, while the impairment that is not credit related is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 84/149 Table of Contents risks, including risks related to foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. participants at the measurement date. When prices in active markets are not available for an identical asset or liability, the Company generally uses industry standard valuation models to measure the fair value of derivative positions. Such measurements involve projecting future cash flows and discounting the future amounts to present value using market based observable inputs, including interest rate curves, Company and counterparty credit risk, foreign currency exchange rates, and forward and spot prices. In the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent with what market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. The determination of fair value often involves significant judgments about assumptions such as determining an appropriate discount rate that factors in both risk and liquidity premiums, identifying the similarities and differences in market transactions, weighting those differences accordingly and then making the appropriate adjustments to those market transactions to reflect the risks specific to the asset or liability being valued. "Financial Instruments", respectively. Contingencies business. The Company records a liability for contingencies when it believes it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company does not record gain contingencies until realized. See Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies", for a full description of the Company's contingencies. product warranty terms generally include post-sales support and repairs or replacement of a product at no additional charge for a specified period of time. The Company engages in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers. The estimated warranty obligation is based on contractual warranty terms, repair costs, product call rates, average cost per call, current period product shipments and ongoing product failure rates, as well as specific product class failure outside of the Company's baseline experience. Warranty terms generally range from one to five years for parts and labor, depending upon the product. For certain networking products, the Company offers a lifetime warranty. Over the last three fiscal years, the annual warranty expense has averaged approximately 1.3% of annual net product revenue. Refer to Note 18, "Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties" for additional information. assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers acquired in a business combination. Generally, this new guidance will result in the Company recognizing contract assets and contract liabilities consistent with those reported by the acquiree immediately before the acquisition date. The Company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 retrospectively to all business combinations completed since the beginning of fiscal 2021. There was no material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. for discounting, margining or contract price alignment can apply certain optional expedients and exceptions mentioned in its reference rate reform guidance even though they do not reference to LIBOR or a rate being discontinued. This guidance was effective upon issuance. The Company adopted the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and there was no impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption. the accounting for income taxes by eliminating certain exceptions to the general principles. The Company adopted the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and there was no material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company accrues the estimated cost of product warranties at the time of recognizing revenue. The Company's standard In December 2019, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for income taxes. The amendments clarify and simplify HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 85/149 Table of Contents arrangements that are hosted by a vendor. Certain types of implementation costs should be capitalized and amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement. The Company adopted the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and there was no material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. benefit pension plans. The Company adopted the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and there was no impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 4, "Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans" for additional disclosures. amendments in 2018, 2019 and 2020. These amendments primarily require the measurement and recognition of current expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. The amended accounting standard replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss model, which requires the use of forward-looking information to calculate credit loss estimates. It also eliminates the concept of other-than-temporary impairment and requires credit losses related to available-for-sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction in the amortized cost basis of the securities. These changes will result in earlier recognition of credit losses. The Company adopted the Current Expected Credit Losses standard (the “CECL standard”) as of November 1, 2020 using the modified retrospective method, with the cumulative-effect adjustment recorded to the opening balance of Accumulated deficit within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The cumulative effect of adopting the CECL standard resulted in an increase of $28 million to the allowance for expected credit losses within financing receivables, and a corresponding increase of $25 million, net of $3 million of deferred taxes to Accumulated deficit as of November 1, 2020. requiring disclosures relating to accounting policy, nature of the assistance, and the effect of the assistance on the financial statements. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, though early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments on its Consolidated Financial Statements. the guidance to account for investments under the equity method of accounting, and the guidance to account for derivatives and hedging. The new guidance clarifies the application of measurement alternatives and the accounting for certain forward contracts and purchased options to acquire investments. The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, though early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect the guidance to have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements. quarter of fiscal 2021, the Company implemented certain organizational changes to align its segment financial reporting more closely with its current business structure. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's operations are now organized into six segments for financial reporting purposes: Compute, HPC & AI, Storage, Intelligent Edge, Financial Services ("FS"), and Corporate Investments and Other. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"), who is the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), uses to evaluate, view and run the Company's business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The six segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management to evaluate segment results. A summary of the types of products and services within each segment is as follows: performance and value for demanding applications. This portfolio of products includes the HPE Proliant rack and tower servers; HPE Synergy and HPE BladeSystems. Compute offerings also include operational and support services and HPE GreenLake for Compute as-a-service. support specific use cases. The HPC hardware solutions are segmented into several categories, High Performance Computing (“HPC”), Data Solutions, and Edge Compute. The HPC portfolio of products includes the HPE Apollo and Cray products that are often sold as supercomputing systems, including exascale supercomputers. The Data Solutions portfolio (formerly named Mission Critical Solutions) includes the HPE Superdome Flex, HPE Nonstop and HPE Integrity product lines. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 86/149 Table of Contents Edge Compute primarily offers HPE Edgeline products. HPC & AI offerings also include operational and support services and solutions delivered as-a-service through HPE GreenLake. infrastructure ("HCI") with HPE Nimble Storage dHCI and HPE SimpliVity. The portfolio also includes primary storage with HPE Primera, HPE Nimble Storage, HPE Alletra and HPE 3PAR Storage for mission-critical and general-purpose workloads, HPE Recovery Manager Central, HPE StoreOnce, HPE Cloud Volumes Backup and Big Data solutions running on Apollo servers. Storage also provides solutions for secondary workloads and traditional tape, storage networking and disk products, such as HPE Modular Storage Arrays ("MSA") and HPE XP. Storage offerings also include operational and support services, software subscription services, and solutions delivered as-a-service through HPE GreenLake. wide-area-network (from the Silver Peak acquisition), network security, and associated services to enable secure connectivity for businesses of any size. The HPE Aruba product portfolio includes products such as Wi-Fi access points, switches, routers, and sensors. The HPE Aruba software and services portfolio includes cloud-based management, network management, network access control, analytics and assurance, location services software and professional and support services, as well as as-a-service and consumption models through HPE GreenLake for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. Intelligence Edge also offers an Edge Service Platform ("Aruba ESP") to help customers meet their connectivity, security, and financial requirements across campus, branch, data center, and remote worker environments, covering all aspects of wired, wireless LAN, and wide area networking. management services, for customers that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and others. FS also supports financial solutions for on- premise flexible consumption models, such as HPE GreenLake. partner technology expertise and advice, implementation services as well as complex solution engagement capabilities; the Communications and Media Solutions business ("CMS") which primarily offers software and related services to the telecommunications industry; the HPE Software business which offers HPE Ezmeral Container Platform and HPE Ezmeral Data Fabric; and Hewlett Packard Labs which is responsible for research and development. The accounting policies that Hewlett Packard Enterprise uses to derive segment results are substantially the same as those the consolidated company uses. The CODM measures the performance of each segment based on several metrics, including earnings from operations. The CODM uses these results, in part, to evaluate the performance of, and to allocate resources to each of the segments. the segments on an arm's-length basis. Intersegment revenues primarily consist of sales of hardware and software that are sourced internally and, in the majority of the cases, are financed as operating leases by FS to our customers. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's consolidated net revenue is derived and reported after the elimination of intersegment revenues from such arrangements. associated with FS and its subsidiaries, and debt issued by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for which a portion of the proceeds benefited FS. These unallocated costs include certain corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Hewlett Packard Enterprise derives the results of its business segments directly from its internal management reporting system. Hewlett Packard Enterprise does not allocate to its segments certain operating expenses, which it manages at the corporate level. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 87/149 Table of Contents https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 88/149 Table of Contents Hewlett Packard Enterprise allocates assets to its business segments based on the segments primarily benefiting from the assets. No single customer represented 10% or more of the Company's total net revenue in any fiscal year presented. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 89/149 Table of Contents fiscal years of 2021, 2020 and 2019, other than the U.S., no country represented more than 10% of the Company's net revenue. third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company launched the cost optimization and prioritization plan which focuses on realigning the workforce to areas of growth, a new hybrid workforce model called Edge-to-Office, real estate strategies and simplifying and evolving our product portfolio strategy. The implementation period of the cost optimization and prioritization plan is through fiscal 2023. During this time the Company expects to incur transformation costs predominantly related to labor restructuring, non-labor restructuring, IT investments, design and execution charges and real estate initiatives. company designed to compete and win in the markets where it participates. Through this program the Company is simplifying the operating model, streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems to improve our execution. The implementation period of the HPE Next initiative is extended through fiscal 2023. During the remaining implementation period, the Company expects to incur transformation costs predominantly related to IT infrastructure costs for streamlining, upgrading and simplifying back-end operations, and real estate initiatives. These costs are expected to be partially offset by gains from real estate sales. As of October 31,   2021 2020   In millions U.S.  $ 2,811 $ 2,762  Other countries 2,802  2,863  Europe, Middle East and Africa 10,329  9,745  10,828  Asia Pacific and Japan 6,780  6,375  6,803  U.S. $ 8,850 $ 9,162 $ 9,582  Americas excluding U.S. 1,825  1,700  1,922 Total consolidated net revenue $ 27,784 $ 26,982 $ 29,135  Net revenue by country is based upon the sales location that predominately represents the customer location. For each of the Transformation programs are comprised of the cost optimization and prioritization plan and the HPE Next initiative. During the https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 90/149 Table of Contents charges associated with HPE Next. For fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, $240 million, $566 million and $453 million were recorded within Transformation costs, and $3 million and $9 million were recorded within Non-service net periodic benefit credit in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. prioritization plan. As of October 31, 2021, the Company estimates that it will incur aggregate charges of approximately $1.3 billion through fiscal 2023 in connection with the cost optimization and prioritization plan which relates to labor restructuring and non-labor restructuring, primarily relating to real estate site exits. The changes to the workforce will vary by country, based on business needs, local legal requirements and consultations with employee works councils and other employee representatives, as appropriate. "HPE Next Plan") and on September 20, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors approved a revision to that restructuring plan. As of October 31, 2020, the headcount exits under the HPE Next Plan were complete. The Company estimates that it will incur charges through fiscal 2023, relating to non-labor restructuring, primarily from real estate site exits. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 91/149 Table of Contents 31, 2021 and 2020, was $287 million and $359 million, respectively, in accrued restructuring, and $27 million and $24 million, respectively, in Other accrued liabilities. The non-current restructuring liability related to the transformation programs, reported in Other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2021 and 2020 was $180 million and $91 million, respectively. and Germany plans. The pension plan in the UK is closed to new entrants, however, members continue to earn benefit accruals. This plan provides benefits based on final pay and years of service and generally requires contributions from members. The German pension program that is open to new hires consists of cash balance plans that provide employer credits as a percentage of pay, certain employee pay deferrals and employer matching contributions. There also are previously closed German pension programs that include cash balance and final average pay plans. These previously closed pension programs comprise the majority of the pension obligations in Germany. hired before August 2008 are eligible for employer credits under the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Retirement Medical Savings Account Plan ("RMSA") upon attaining age 45. Employer credits to the RMSA available after September 2008 are provided in the form of matching credits on employee contributions made to a voluntary employee beneficiary association. Upon retirement, employees may use these employer credits for the reimbursement of certain eligible medical expenses. Post-Retirement Benefit Plans The Company sponsors retiree health and welfare benefit plans, the most significant of which is in the U.S. Generally, employees HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 92/149 Table of Contents expense was approximately $170 million in fiscal 2021, $160 million in fiscal 2020 and $181 million in fiscal 2019. U.S. employees are automatically enrolled in the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 401(k) Plan ("HPE 401(k) Plan"), when they meet eligibility requirements, unless they decline participation. The HPE 401(k) Plan's quarterly employer matching contributions are 100% of an employee's contributions, up to a maximum of 4% of eligible compensation. Due to cost containment measures put in place in response to COVID-19, the Company suspended the employer match for U.S. employees from July 1, 2020 through the end of the calendar year 2020. other former employees of Hewlett Packard Enterprise and recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 are presented in the table below. (1) The average assumed interest credited for HPE's cash balance plans and postretirement plans, as applicable. approach, which represent substantially all of the Company's defined benefit plans, the Company has elected to use a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components of benefit cost by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Discount rate used to determine benefit obligation 1.0 % 1.2 % 2.1 % 2.8 % 3.4 % 4.9 % Discount rate used to determine service cost 1.3 % 1.6 % 2.3 % 2.6 % 3.0 % 4.4 % Discount rate used to determine interest cost 0.8 % 1.0 % 1.8 % 2.3 % 3.2 % 4.7 % Expected increase in compensation levels 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.5 % —  —  —  Expected long-term return on plan assets 3.3 % 4.1 % 4.3 % 2.3 % 2.3 % 2.6 % Interest crediting rate 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.7 % 3.7 % 3.7 % Actuarial loss (gain) 296  264  235  (2) (1) (4) Prior service benefit (13) (14) (15) —  —  — of Earnings. Defined Contribution Plans The Company offers various defined contribution plans for U.S. and non-U.S. employees. The Company's defined contribution https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 93/149 Table of Contents (1) Includes the addition/deletion of plans resulting from acquisitions. effects of increasing discount rates offset by increases in long-term inflation assumptions for various plans. Assets returned much better than expected resulting in an increase in pension assets from approximately $14.1 billion to $15.4 billion. For the year ended October 31, 2020, the increase in the benefit obligation was primarily attributable to a decrease in the discount rate which resulted in an increase to HPE's pension liability of approximately $0.6 billion. Assets performed as expected contributing to an increase in pension assets from $13.4 billion to $14.1 billion. For the year ended October 31, 2021, the benefit obligation remained flat at approximately $14.9 billion primarily due to the HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 94/149 Table of Contents below sets forth the fair value of non-U.S. defined benefit plan assets by asset category within the fair value hierarchy as of October 31, 2021 and 2020. As of October 31,   2021 2020 2021 2020   Defined Benefit Plans Post-Retirement Benefit Plans Discount rate 1.3 % 1.0 % 3.0 % 2.8 % Expected increase in compensation levels 2.6 % 2.5 % —  —  Interest crediting rate 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.7 % 2.7 % Fair Value of Plan Assets The Company pays the U.S. defined benefit plan obligations when they come due since these plans are unfunded. The table HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 95/149 Table of Contents (1) Repurchase agreements, primarily in the UK, represent the plans' short-term borrowing to hedge against interest rate and inflation risks. Investments in approximately $5 billion of government bonds collateralize this short-term borrowing at October 31, 2021 and 2020. The plans have an obligation to return the cash after the term of the agreements. Due to the short-term nature of the agreements, the outstanding balance of the obligation approximates fair value. (2) Includes a fund that invests in various government bonds issued by worldwide governments, interest rate swaps, and cash, to match or slightly outperform the benchmark of the future liabilities of the fund. While the fund is not publicly traded, the custodian strikes a net asset value daily. There are no redemption restrictions or future commitments on these investments. (3) Includes funds that invest primarily in asset-backed securities, mortgage backed securities, collateralized loan obligations, and/or private debt investments. Primary valuation techniques for level 3 investments include discounted cash flows and broker quotes and/or 3rd party pricing services. Significant unobservable inputs include yields which are determined by considering the market yield of comparable public debt instruments adjusted for estimated losses to reflect where the expected recovery rate would be less than 100%. The yields ranged from 4% to 17%, with the weighted average around 7%. Generally, an increase in yield may result in a decrease in the fair value of certain investments. (4) Includes funds, primarily in the UK, that invest in both private and public equities, as well as emerging markets across all sectors. The funds also hold fixed income and derivative instruments to hedge interest rate and inflation risk. In addition, the funds include units in transferable securities, collective investment schemes, money market funds, asset-backed income, cash, and deposits. Primary valuation techniques for level 3 investments include discounted cash flows and book value or net asset value. Significant unobservable inputs include discount rates. The discount rates ranged from 3% to 25%, with the main weighted average around 7%. Generally, an increase in discount rates may result in a decrease in the fair value of certain investments. Total $ 1,575 $ 8,479 $ 992 $ 15,354 $ 1,420 $ 7,685 $ 756 $ 14,127  U.S.  $ 884 $ 128 $ — $ 1,012 $ 155 $ 117 $ — $ 272  Non-U.S.  345  196  —  541  955  217  —  1,172 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 96/149 Table of Contents (5) Includes a pooled fund in the UK, that seeks a rate of return with direct or indirect linkage to UK inflation by investing in vehicles including bonds, long lease property, income strips, asset-backed securities, and index linked assets. Units are available for subscription on the first day of each calendar month at net asset value. There are no redemption restrictions or future commitments on these investments. (6) HPE Invest Common Contractual Funds (CCFs) are investment arrangements in which institutional investors pool their assets.  Units may be acquired in four different sub-funds focused on equities, fixed income, alternative investments, and emerging markets. Each sub-fund is invested in accordance with the fund's investment objective and units are issued in relation to each sub-fund. While the sub-funds are not publicly traded, the custodian strikes a net asset value either once or twice a month, depending on the sub-fund. There are no redemption restrictions or future commitments on these investments. (7) Includes international insured contracts, derivative instruments, and unsettled transactions. entities of which $49 million are classified within Level 1 and $11 million within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. As of October 31, 2020 post-retirement benefit plan assets of $57 million were invested in publicly traded registered investment entities of which $46 million are classified within Level 1 and $11 million within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. stock exchange on which the individual securities are traded. For corporate, government backed debt securities, and some other investments, fair value is based on observable inputs of comparable market transactions. The valuation of certain real estate funds, insurance group annuity contracts and alternative investments, such as limited partnerships and joint ventures, may require significant management judgment and involves a level of uncertainty. The valuation is generally based on fair value as reported by the asset manager and adjusted for cash flows, if necessary. In making such an assessment, a variety of factors are reviewed by management, including, but are not limited to, the timeliness of fair value as reported by the asset manager and changes in general economic and market conditions subsequent to the last fair value reported by the asset manager. The use of Changes in fair value measurements of Level 3 investments for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans were as follows: The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used to measure plan assets at fair value. Investments in publicly traded equity securities are valued using the closing price on the measurement date as reported on the HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 97/149 Table of Contents different techniques or assumptions to estimate fair value could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents includes money market funds, which are valued based on cost, which approximates fair value. Other than those assets that have quoted prices from an active market, investments are generally classified in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measure in its entirety. Investments measured using net asset value as a practical expedient are not categorized within the fair value hierarchy. U.S. defined benefit plans were as follows: and approximately 19% in multi-asset credit investments which consists primarily of investment grade credit, emerging market debt and high yield bonds. funded status of each plan and the timing of expected benefit payments. The majority of the plans' investment managers employ active investment management strategies with the goal of outperforming the broad markets in which they invest. Risk management practices include diversification across asset classes and investment styles and periodic rebalancing toward asset allocation targets. A number of the plans' investment managers are authorized to utilize derivatives for investment or liability exposures, and the Company may utilize derivatives to effect asset allocation changes or to hedge certain investment or liability exposures. designed to generate returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. In some countries, local regulations may restrict asset allocations, typically leading to a higher percentage of investment in fixed income securities than would otherwise be deployed. The Company reviews the investment strategy and provides a recommended list of investment managers for each country plan, with final decisions on asset allocation and investment managers made by the board of trustees or investment committees for the specific plan. invests and the weight of each asset class in the target mix. Expected asset returns reflect the current yield on government bonds, risk premiums for each asset class and expected real returns, which considers each country's specific inflation outlook. Because the Company's investment policy is to employ primarily active investment managers who seek to outperform the broader market, the expected returns are adjusted to reflect the expected additional returns, net of fees. cover benefit claims under the Company's post-retirement benefit plans. Asset Category Public equity securities   23.0 % 22.6 % Private/hybrid equity securities   16.7 % 17.6 % Real estate and other   2.7 % 2.9 % Equity-related investments 43.7 % 42.4 % 43.1 % Debt securities 55.0 % 54.4 % 53.9 % Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 % 3.2 % 3.0 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Plan Asset Allocations The weighted-average target and actual asset allocations across the benefit plans at the respective measurement dates for the non- Asset allocation decisions are typically made by an independent board of trustees for the specific plan. Investment objectives are Employer Contributions and Funding Policy During fiscal 2021, the Company contributed approximately $167 million to its non-U.S. pension plans and paid $5 million to HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 98/149 Table of Contents additional $2 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified plan participants. In addition, the Company expects to pay approximately $7 million to cover benefit claims for its post-retirement benefit plans. The Company's policy is to fund its pension plans so that it makes at least the minimum contribution required by various authorities including local government and taxing authorities. Stock Incentive Plan (the "2021 Plan") that replaced the Company’s 2015 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2015 Plan”). The 2021 Plan provides for the grant of various types of awards including restricted stock awards, stock options and performance-based awards. These awards generally vest over 3 years from the grant date. The maximum number of shares that may be delivered to the participants under the 2021 Plan shall not exceed 7 million shares, plus 35.8 million shares that were available for grant under the 2015 Plan as of the Approval Date and any awards granted under the 2015 Plan prior to the Approval Date that were cash-settled, forfeited, terminated or lapsed after the Approval Date. The Company's stock-based incentive compensation program also includes various replacement awards through acquisitions under which stock-based awards are outstanding. For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   In millions Stock-based compensation expense $ 382 $ 278 $ 270  Income tax benefit (70) (51) (50) Stock-based compensation expense, net of tax $ 312 $ 227 $ 220  2022 $ 523 $ 11  2023 524  12  2024 530  11  2025 561  11  2026 565  11  During fiscal 2022, the Company expects to contribute approximately $199 million to its non-U.S. pension plans and an https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 99/149 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Plan ("ESPP"). The total number of shares of Company's common stock authorized under the ESPP was 80 million. The ESPP allows eligible employees to contribute up to 10% of their eligible compensation to purchase Hewlett Packard Enterprise's common stock. The ESPP provides for a discount not to exceed 15% and an offering period up to 24 months. The Company currently offers 6-month offering periods during which employees have the ability to purchase shares at 95% of the closing market price on the purchase date. No stock-based compensation expense was recorded in connection with those purchases, as the criteria of a non-compensatory plan were met. units do not have the voting rights of common stock, and the shares underlying restricted stock units are not considered issued and outstanding upon grant. The fair value of the restricted stock units is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the grant date of the award. The Company expenses the fair value of restricted stock units ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse. million, $254 million and $182 million, respectively. As of October 31, 2021, there was $259 million of unrecognized pre-tax stock- based compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock units, which the Company expects to recognize over the remaining weighted-average vesting period of 1.3 years. fair value of the PSUs is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the grant date of the award. The Company also issues performance-adjusted restricted stock units ("PARSU") that vest only on the satisfaction of service, performance and market conditions. The Company estimates the fair value of PARSUs subject to performance-contingent vesting conditions using the Monte Carlo simulation model. The expenses associated with these performance restricted units were not material for any of the periods presented. Restricted stock units have forfeitable dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividend paid on common stock. Restricted stock The Company issues performance stock units ("PSU") that vest on the satisfaction of service and performance conditions. The HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 100/149 Table of Contents qualify as incentive stock options under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The exercise price of a stock option is equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the option grant date. The majority of the stock options issued by the Company contain only service vesting conditions. The Company has also issued performance-contingent stock options that vest only on the satisfaction of both service and market conditions. The Company did not issue stock options in fiscal 2021 and 2020, other than those that were replacement awards through acquisitions in fiscal 2020. The expenses associated with these stock options were not material for any of the periods presented. service-based vesting conditions. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options subject to performance-contingent vesting conditions using a combination of a Monte Carlo simulation model and a lattice model, as these awards contain market conditions. litigation judgment.   For the fiscal years ended October 31,   2021 2020 2019   In millions U.S. $ (1,128) $ (2,008) $ (1,067) Non-U.S. 4,715  1,566  2,620 U.S. federal taxes: Non-U.S. taxes: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 101/149 Table of Contents (1) Positive numbers represent tax benefits and negative numbers represent tax expense as the Company recorded income tax benefit on a pretax loss. presented include Puerto Rico and Singapore. primarily included $180 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs, and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, $157 million of income tax benefits related to releases of foreign valuation allowances, $39 million of income tax benefits related to tax rate changes on deferred taxes, and $32 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-Separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which the Company shares joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which the Company is indemnified by HP Inc. These benefits were partially offset by $337 million of net income tax charges associated with income from the Itanium litigation judgment, against which $244 million of income tax attributes previously subject to a valuation allowance were utilized, resulting in a net tax expense of $93 million. primarily included $174 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs, and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, $66 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-Separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which the Company shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which the Company is indemnified by HP Inc., $57 million of income tax benefits related to Indian distribution tax rate changes, and $40 million of income tax benefits related to tax rate changes on deferred taxes. primarily included $488 million of net income tax charges related to changes in U.S. federal and state valuation allowances primarily as a result of impacts of the Tax Act and $40 million of income tax charges related to future withholding costs on potential intercompany distributions of earnings, the effects of which were partially offset by $274 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre- Separation tax liabilities for which the Company shared joint and several liability with HP Inc., and $104 million of income tax benefits on transformation costs, and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. services in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates through 2037. The gross foreign income tax benefits attributable to these actions and investments were $889 million ($0.67 diluted net EPS) in fiscal 2021, $521 million ($0.40 diluted net EPS) in fiscal 2020, and $837 million ($0.61 diluted net EPS) in fiscal 2019. Refer to Note 16, "Net Earnings Per Share" for details on shares used to compute diluted net EPS. U.S. federal statutory income tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 % 21.0 % State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit 0.7 % 0.9 % (0.1)% Lower rates in other jurisdictions, net (7.6)% (2.3)% (7.3)% Valuation allowance (10.0)% 20.8 % 5.8 % U.S. permanent differences 3.6 % (3.4)% 6.0 % U.S. R&D credit (1.3)% 8.4 % (2.3)% Uncertain tax positions (0.9)% 7.6 % (14.3)% Goodwill impairment — % (41.2)% — % Tax law changes (1.1)% 15.5 % 24.5 % Other, net 0.1 % (0.2)% (0.8)% The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and the Company's effective tax rate were as follows: In fiscal 2021, the Company recorded $294 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts In fiscal 2020, the Company recorded $362 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts In fiscal 2019, the Company recorded $152 million of net income tax charges related to items discrete to the year. These amounts 96 4.5 % 27.1 % 32.5 % (1) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 102/149 Table of Contents 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, would affect the Company's effective tax rate if realized. unrecognized tax benefits in (Provision) benefit for taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The Company recognized $17 million of interest expense, $10 million of interest income, and $13 million of interest income in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company had accrued $136 million and $119 million, respectively, for interest and penalties in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. Hewlett Packard Enterprise is no longer subject to U.S. federal tax audits for years prior to 2016. With respect to major state and foreign tax jurisdictions, HPE is no longer subject to tax authority examinations for years prior to 2005. to numerous ongoing audits by state tax authorities. various jurisdictions. Hewlett Packard Enterprise does not expect complete resolution of any IRS audit cycle within the next 12 months. However, it is reasonably possible that certain federal, foreign and state tax issues may be concluded in the next 12 months, including issues involving resolution of certain intercompany transactions, joint and several tax liabilities and other matters. Accordingly, Hewlett Packard Enterprise believes it is reasonably possible that its existing unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced by an amount up to $69 million within the next 12 months. could result from federal, state and foreign tax audits. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of the Company's tax provision. The Company adjusts its uncertain tax positions to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and events pertaining to a particular audit. However, income tax audits are inherently unpredictable and there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcome of these audits. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in the (Provision) benefit for taxes and therefore the resolution of one or more of these uncertainties in any particular period could have a material impact on net earnings or cash flows. undistributed earnings and basis differences from non-U.S. operations as of October 31, 2021 because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these earnings and basis differences is not practicable. The Company will remit non-indefinitely Hewlett Packard Enterprise is subject to income tax in the U.S. and approximately 90 other countries and is subject to routine With the resolution of the 2013 through 2015 U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") tax audits of its former parent in fiscal 2019, Hewlett Packard Enterprise is joint and severally liable for certain pre-Separation state tax liabilities of HP Inc. HP Inc. is subject Hewlett Packard Enterprise has not provided for U.S. federal and state income and foreign withholding taxes on $8.9 billion of HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 103/149 Table of Contents reinvested earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided where excess cash has accumulated and the Company determines that it is advantageous for business operations, tax or cash management reasons. reporting and tax purposes. loss carryforwards, respectively. Amounts included in federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in years 2030, 2022, and 2022, respectively. Hewlett Packard Enterprise has provided a valuation allowance of $171 million and $4.4 billion for deferred tax assets related to state and foreign net operating losses carryforwards, respectively. As of October 31, 2021, the Company also had $6.0 billion, $6.0 billion, and $112 million of federal, state, and foreign capital loss carryforwards, respectively. Amounts included in federal and state capital loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023; As of October 31, 2021, the Company had $555 million, $3.2 billion and $19.8 billion of federal, state and foreign net operating Net deferred tax assets and liabilities $ 1,529 $ 1,488  HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 104/149 Table of Contents foreign capital losses can carry forward indefinitely. Hewlett Packard Enterprise has provided a valuation allowance of $1.3 billion, $181 million, and $33 million for deferred tax assets related to federal, state, and foreign capital loss carryforwards, respectively. allowances due to sufficient history of income and release of U.S. valuation allowances as a result of foreign tax credit utilization resulting from the Itanium litigation judgment. the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement in fiscal 2019. Pursuant to that termination, HP Inc. paid the Company $200 million in fiscal 2019 and $50 million in both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021. In connection with the Everett and Seattle Transactions, the Company entered into a DXC Tax Matters Agreement with DXC and a Micro Focus Tax Matters Agreement with Micro Focus, respectively. See Note 18, "Guarantees, Indemnifications and Warranties", for a description of the DXC Tax Matters Agreement and Micro Focus Tax Matters Agreement. Accounts Receivable, Net   Carryforward   In millions U.S. foreign tax credits $ 922 $ (912) 2026 U.S. research and development and other credits 151  (1) 2022 Tax credits in state and foreign jurisdictions 153  (87) 2022 Balance at end of year $ 1,226 $ (1,000) In connection with the Separation, the Company entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with HP Inc., which was terminated with https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 105/149 (1) Beginning and ending balances represent amounts for trade receivables sold but not yet collected. The ending credit balance as of October 31, 2019 represents credit memos issued but not applied to trade receivables prior to cash remittance. of certain customers. The Company recorded an obligation of $65 million, $75 million and $80 million in Notes payable and short-term borrowings in its Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, related to the trade receivables sold and collected from the third-party for which the revenue recognition was deferred. For arrangements involving an element of recourse, the fair value of the recourse obligation is measured using market data from similar transactions and reported as a current liability in Other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Depreciation expense was $2.2 billion, $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (1) HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 106/149 Table of Contents billion and $6.2 billion as of October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During fiscal 2021, approximately $3.2 billion of deferred revenue as of October 31, 2020 was recognized as revenue. include contracts where the customer is not committed. Remaining performance obligations estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including contract terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, adjustments for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency. performance obligations was $6.4 billion. The Company expect to recognize approximately 53% of this amount as revenue over the next twelve months with the remainder to be recognized thereafter. Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue. The aggregate balance of current and non-current deferred revenue was $6.4 Remaining performance obligations consist of deferred revenue. As of October 31, 2021, the aggregate amount of remaining HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 107/149 Table of Contents $95 million, respectively. As of October 31, 2020, the current and non-current portions of the capitalized costs to obtain a contract were $54 million and $76 million, respectively. The current and non-current portions of the capitalized costs to obtain a contract were included in Other current assets, and Long-term financing receivables and other assets, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In fiscal 2021 and 2020, the Company amortized $73 million and $58 million, respectively, of the capitalized costs to obtain a contract which are included in Selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. transactions. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 108/149 Table of Contents recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These operating leases are scheduled to commence during fiscal 2022 and contain lease terms of 1 to 10 years. receivables typically have terms ranging from two to five years and are usually collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Financing receivables also include billed receivables from operating leases. The allowance for credit losses represents future expected credit losses over the life of the receivables based on past experience, current information and forward-looking economic considerations. The components of financing receivables were as follows: Weighted-average remaining lease term (in years) 7.7 8.5 6.8 9.5 Weighted-average discount rate 2.7 % 3.5 % 2.6 % 3.5 % Financing Receivables Financing receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases of the Company and third-party products. These HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 109/149 Table of Contents party financial institutions. During the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company sold $142 million and $103 million, respectively, of financing receivables. when assessing and monitoring credit risk. Credit risk is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising the Company's customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographic regions. The Company evaluates the credit quality of an obligor at lease inception and monitors that credit quality over the term of a transaction. The Company assigns risk ratings to each lease based on the creditworthiness of the obligor and other variables that augment or mitigate the inherent credit risk of a particular transaction and periodically updates the risk ratings when there is a change in the underlying credit quality. Such variables include the underlying value and liquidity of the collateral, the essential use of the equipment, the term of the lease, and the inclusion of credit enhancements, such as guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 110/149 Table of Contents moderate risk generally have the equivalent of BB+ or lower. The Company classifies accounts as high risk when it considers the financing receivable to be impaired or when management believes there is a significant near-term risk of impairment. Effective November 1, 2020, under the new guidance for credit losses, the Company discloses its credit quality by year of origination. The credit quality indicators do not reflect any mitigation actions taken to transfer credit risk to third parties. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 111/149 Table of Contents (1) Includes billed operating lease receivables and billed sales-type and direct-financing lease receivables. (2) Includes billed operating lease receivables and billed and unbilled sales-type and direct-financing lease receivables. commencement of an operating lease, initial direct costs are deferred and are expensed over the lease term on the same basis as the lease revenue is recorded. If a lease is classified as an operating lease, the Company records lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. At (1) HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 112/149 Table of Contents backed debt securities are collateralized by the U.S. fixed-term financing receivables and leased equipment in the offering, which is held by a Special Purpose Entity ("SPE"). The SPE meets the definition of a VIE and is consolidated, along with the associated debt, into the Consolidated Financial Statements as the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The SPE is a bankruptcy-remote legal entity with separate assets and liabilities. The purpose of the SPE is to facilitate the funding of customer receivables and leased equipment in the capital markets. Company's right to receive collections for assets securitized exceeds the amount required to pay interest, principal, and fees and expenses related to the asset-backed securities. included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The assets in the table below includes those that can be used to settle the obligations of the VIE. Additionally, general Creditors do not have recourse to the assets of the VIE. October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Leased equipment transferred via securitization through the SPE was $720 million and $675 million for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. including preliminary work performed by third-party valuation specialists, of certain tangible assets and liabilities acquired, the valuation of intangible assets acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes, and residual goodwill, which are subject to change within the measurement period as valuations are finalized. Measurement period adjustments are recorded in the reporting period in which the estimates are finalized and adjustment amounts are determined. Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the Company's consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. Goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, is not deductible for tax purposes. Variable Interest Entities The Company has issued asset-backed debt securities under a fixed-term securitization program to private investors. The asset- Financing receivables transferred via securitization through the SPE were $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion for the fiscal years ended https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 113/149 Table of Contents aggregate, to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the aggregate purchase price allocation, including those items that were preliminary allocations and subject to change, for the Company's acquisitions for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021: protection. Zerto's results of operations were included within the Storage segment. The acquisition date fair value consideration of $416 million primarily consisted of cash paid for outstanding common stock and vested in-the-money stock awards. In connection with this acquisition, the Company recorded approximately $214 million of goodwill, and $208 million of intangible assets. The Company is amortizing the intangible assets on a straight-line basis over an estimated weighted-average useful life of seven years. Silver Peak's results of operations were included within the Intelligent Edge segment. The acquisition date fair value consideration of $879 million consisted of cash paid for outstanding common stock, pre-acquisition service of the replacement awards, and vested in- the-money stock awards. In connection with this acquisition, the Company recorded approximately $561 million of goodwill, and $348 million of intangible assets. The Company is amortizing the intangible assets on a straight-line basis over an estimated weighted- average useful life of five years. Acquisitions in fiscal 2020 During fiscal 2020, the Company completed two acquisitions. The following table presents the aggregate purchase price On September 21, 2020, the Company completed the acquisition of Silver Peak, a Software-Defined Wide Area Network leader. Acquisitions in fiscal 2019 During fiscal 2019, the Company completed three acquisitions. The following table presents the aggregate purchase price HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 114/149 Table of Contents operations are included within the HPC & AI segment. The acquisition date fair value consideration of $1.5 billion consisted of cash paid for outstanding common stock, vested in-the-money stock awards and amount attributable to pre-acquisition service of the replacement awards. In connection with this acquisition, the Company recorded approximately $702 million of goodwill, $425 million of intangible assets and $141 million of in-process research and development. The Company is amortizing the intangible assets on a straight-line basis over an estimated weighted-average useful life of four years. (1) As a result of the organizational realignments which were effective as of November 1, 2020, (described in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies"), $213 million of goodwill was reallocated from the Storage segment to the Software reporting unit within Corporate Investments and Other as of the beginning of the period using a relative fair value approach. (2) Goodwill is net of accumulated impairment losses of $953 million. Of this amount, $865 million related to HPC & AI which was recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and $88 million related to the CMS reporting unit within Corporate Investments and Other was recorded during fiscal 2018. There is no goodwill remaining in the CMS reporting unit. consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 2, "Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements, with the exception of Corporate Investments and Other which contains three reporting units, Software, CMS and A&PS. impairment of goodwill existed. As of our annual test date, performed at the beginning of the fourth quarter, the excess of fair value over carrying amount for our reporting units ranged from approximately 8% to 133% of the respective carrying amounts. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value of our reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit. Based on the results of this hypothetical 10% decrease all of the reporting units had an excess of fair value over carrying amount, with the exception of the HPC & AI reporting unit. value of net assets of 8%. The fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit is based on a weighting of fair values derived most significantly from the income approach, and to a lesser extent, the market approach. The HPC & AI business is facing challenges on the current and projected future results as revenue growth is dependent on timing of delivery and related achievement of customer acceptance milestones. If the Company is not successful in addressing these challenges, the projected revenue growth rates or operating margins could decline resulting in a decrease in the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit. The fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit could also be negatively impacted by changes in its weighted average cost of capital, changes in management's business strategy or significant and sustained declines in the stock price, which could result in an indicator of impairment. Balance at October 31, 2019 $ 7,532 $ 4,478 $ 3,945 $ 1,994 $ 144 $ 213 $ 18,306  Goodwill from acquisitions —  —  —  572  —  —  572  Impairment of goodwill —  (865) —  —  —  —  (865) Goodwill adjustments —  3  1  —  —  —  4  Balance at October 31, 2020  7,532  3,616  3,946  2,566  144  213  18,017  Goodwill from acquisitions —  86  214  —  —  —  300  Goodwill adjustments —  —  —  (11) —  —  (11) Balance at October 31, 2021  $ 7,532 $ 3,702 $ 4,160 $ 2,555 $ 144 $ 213 $ 18,306  On September 25, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Cray, a global supercomputer leader. Cray's results of Goodwill Impairments     Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. As of October 31, 2021, our reporting units with goodwill are As of the annual test date, the HPC & AI reporting unit had goodwill of $3.7 billion and an excess of fair value over carrying   Compute HPC & AI Storage HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 115/149 Table of Contents flows for each of the Company's reporting units may be insufficient to support the carrying value and the goodwill assigned to them, requiring impairment charges, including additional impairment charges for the HPC & AI reporting unit. Further impairment charges, if any, may be material to the results of operations and financial position. goodwill existed. value of the HPC & AI reporting unit was below the carrying value of net assets assigned to HPC & AI. The decline in the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit resulted from macroeconomic impacts of COVID-19 which lowered the projected revenue growth rates and profitability levels of the reporting unit. The fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit was based on the above described methodology for the annual test which was a weighting of fair values derived most significantly from the income approach, and to a lesser extent, the market approach. Under the income approach, the Company estimates the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows which the Company considers to be a level 3 unobservable input in the fair value hierarchy. The Company prepares cash flow projections based on management's estimates of revenue growth rates and operating margins, taking into consideration the historical performance and the current macroeconomic industry and market conditions. The Company bases the discount rate on the weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, the Company estimates fair value based on market multiple earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. The Company weights the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. the HPC & AI reporting unit and concluded that such assets were not impaired. The quantitative goodwill impairment test indicated that the carrying value of the HPC & AI reporting unit exceeded its fair value by $865 million. As a result, the Company recorded a partial goodwill impairment charge of $865 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. amortized and were eliminated from gross intangible assets and accumulated amortization, partially offset by $273 million of purchases related to acquisitions. core technology and patents as the projects were completed, and began amortization. For fiscal 2020, no in-process research and development assets were completed. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 116/149 Table of Contents transaction between market participants at the measurement date. developed using market data such as publicly available information and reflect the assumptions market participants would use, while unobservable inputs are developed using the best information available about the assumptions market participants would use. Assets and liabilities are classified in the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement: The Company uses valuation techniques that are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs are Level 1—Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 3—Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to observable inputs and lowest priority to unobservable inputs. in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability and market- corroborated inputs. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 117/149 Table of Contents of corporate and foreign government notes and bonds. The Company values cash equivalents using quoted market prices, alternative pricing sources, including net asset value, or models utilizing market observable inputs. The fair value of debt and equity investments was based on quoted market prices or model-driven valuations using inputs primarily derived from or corroborated by observable market data, and, in certain instances, valuation models that utilize assumptions which cannot be corroborated with observable market data. currency and interest rate exposures. The Company uses industry standard valuation models to measure fair value. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to present value using market-based observable inputs, including interest rate curves, the Company and counterparties' credit risk, foreign currency exchange rates, and forward and spot prices for currencies and interest rates. See Note 13, "Financial Instruments", for a further discussion of the Company's use of derivative instruments. technique, which is based on observable market inputs using interest rates currently available to companies of similar credit standing for similar terms and remaining maturities, and considering its own credit risk. The portion of the Company's debt that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as an amount equal to the debt's carrying amount and a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations arising from movements in benchmark interest rates. As of October 31, 2021, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt was $14.6 billion and For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021 and 2020, there were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 118/149 Table of Contents the carrying value was $13.4 billion. As of October 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of the Company's short-term and long-term debt was $17.1 billion and the carrying value was $15.9 billion. If measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, short-term and long-term debt would be classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. payable and financial liabilities included in other accrued liabilities, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. If measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, these other financial instruments would be classified in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes. For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, there were no material impairment charges relating to equity investments. For the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Company recognized a gain of $64 million, $19 million and $13 million in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, based on observable price changes for certain equity investments without readily determinable fair value. If measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, these would generally be classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. equipment, are recorded at cost. The Company records ROU assets based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee's initial direct costs. Fair value adjustments are made to these non-financial assets in the period an impairment charge is recognized. Transformation costs in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as the carrying value of certain ROU assets exceeded its fair value. If measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, these would generally be classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. HPC & AI reporting unit. The fair value of the Company's reporting units was classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to the significance of unobservable inputs developed using company-specific information. For more information on the goodwill impairment, see Note 11, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets". equivalents. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, the carrying amount of cash equivalents approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity. Interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and debt securities was approximately $18 million https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 119/149 Table of Contents in fiscal 2021, $44 million in fiscal 2020 and $64 million in fiscal 2019. Time deposits were primarily issued by institutions outside the U.S. as of October 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020. The estimated fair value of the available-for-sale investments may not be representative of values that will be realized in the future. in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These non-marketable equity investments are carried either at fair value or under the measurement alternative. $253 million and $295 million as of October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During the twelve months ended October 31, 2021, the Company recorded an unrealized gain of $64 million on these investments. of October 31, 2021. During the twelve months ended October 31, 2021, the Company recorded an unrealized gain of $50 million on these investments. Consolidated Balance Sheets. The carrying amount of such equity investments amounted to $57 million as of October 31, 2021. During the twelve months ended October 31, 2021, the Company recorded an unrealized gain of $25 million on these investments. the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These amounted to $2.2 billion at October 31, 2021 and 2020. For additional information, see Note 20, "Equity Method Investments". course of its business. As part of its risk management strategy, the Company uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, interest rate swaps and total return swaps to hedge certain foreign currency, interest rate and, to a lesser extent, equity exposures. The Company's objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with losses and gains on the derivative contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting the fair value of assets and liabilities. The Company does not have any leveraged derivatives and does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. The Company may designate its derivative contracts as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation ("net investment hedges"). Additionally, for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, the Company categorizes those economic hedges as other derivatives. Derivative instruments are recognized at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The change in fair value of the derivative instruments is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings or Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income depending upon the type of hedge as further discussed below. The Company classifies cash flows from its derivative programs with the activities that correspond to the underlying hedged items in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. contractual obligations. To mitigate counterparty credit risk, the Company has a policy of only entering into derivative contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based on their credit ratings and other factors, and the Company maintains dollar risk limits that correspond to each financial institution's credit rating and other factors. The Company's established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and periodically reassessing the creditworthiness of its counterparties. Master netting agreements also mitigate credit exposure to counterparties by permitting the Company to net amounts due from the Company to a counterparty against amounts due to the Company from the same counterparty under certain conditions. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 120/149 Table of Contents to hold collateral from, or require the Company to post collateral to counterparties when aggregate derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds which are generally based on the credit ratings of the Company and its counterparties. If the Company's credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, the counterparty has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives' net liability position. Conversely, if the counterparty's credit rating falls below a specified credit rating, the Company has the right to request full collateralization of the derivatives' net liability position. Collateral is generally posted within two business days. The fair value of the Company's derivatives with credit contingent features in a net liability position was $3 million and $45 million at October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, all of which were fully collateralized within two business days. control event affecting the Company that results in the surviving entity being rated below a specified credit rating. This credit contingent provision did not affect the Company's financial position or cash flows as of October 31, 2021 and 2020. into fair value hedges, such as interest rate swaps, to reduce the exposure of its debt portfolio to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates by achieving a primarily U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest rate. The swap transactions generally involve principal and interest obligations for U.S. dollar-denominated amounts. Alternatively, the Company may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if it believes a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. When investing in fixed-rate instruments, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps that convert the fixed interest payments into variable interest payments and may designate these swaps as fair value hedges. of the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings in the period of change. inherent in its forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company's foreign currency cash flow hedges mature generally within twelve months; however, forward contracts associated with sales-type and direct-financing leases and intercompany loans extend for the duration of the lease or loan term, which can extend up to five years. payments associated with its variable-rate debt due to changes in the U.S. dollar LIBOR-based floating interest rate. The swap transactions generally involve principal and interest obligations for U.S. dollar-denominated amounts. Company records the changes in fair value of the derivative instrument in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and subsequently reclassifies these amounts into earnings in the same financial statement line item when the hedged transaction is recognized. whose functional currency is the local currency. The Company records the changes in the fair value of the hedged items in cumulative translation adjustment as a separate component of Equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. denominated balance sheet exposures. The Company also uses total return swaps, based on equity or fixed income indices, to hedge its executive deferred compensation plan liability. Fair Value Hedges The Company issues long-term debt in U.S. dollars based on market conditions at the time of financing. The Company may enter https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 121/149 Table of Contents instrument, as well as the offsetting change in the fair value of the hedged item, in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings in the period of change. fair value of the hedged items with the change in fair value of the derivative. For forward contracts designated as cash flow or net investment hedges, the Company measures hedge effectiveness by comparing the cumulative change in fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged item, both of which are based on forward rates. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 122/149 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 123/149 Table of Contents derivative instruments are subject to master netting arrangements and collateral security arrangements. The Company does not offset the fair value of its derivative instruments against the fair value of cash collateral posted under collateral security agreements. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, information related to the potential effect of the Company's use of the master netting agreements and collateral security agreements was as follows: (1) Represents the cash collateral posted by counterparties as of the respective reporting date for the Company's asset position, net of derivative amounts that could be offset, as of, generally, two business days prior to the respective reporting date. (2) Represents the collateral posted by the Company in cash or through re-use of counterparty cash collateral as of the respective reporting date for the Company's liability position, net of derivative amounts that could be offset, as of, generally, two business days prior to the respective reporting date. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020 the entire amount of the collateral posted of $5 million and $55 million, respectively, was through re-use of counterparty collateral. Notes payable and short-term borrowings $ (1,365) $ — $ (15) $ —  Long-term debt $ (2,573) $ (4,059) $ (80) $ (220) Offsetting of Derivative Instruments The Company recognizes all derivative instruments on a gross basis in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company's https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 124/149 Table of Contents approximately $57 million, net of taxes, to earnings in the next twelve months along with the earnings effects of the related forecasted transactions associated with cash flow hedges. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 125/149 Table of Contents (1) As of October 31, 2021, the Current portion of long-term debt, net of discount and issuance costs, includes $1.2 billion associated with the Company issued asset-backed debt securities. Dollars in millions Current portion of long-term debt $ 2,613  2.1 % $ 2,768  2.0 % Commercial paper 705  (0.3)% 677  — % Notes payable to banks, lines of credit and other 234  1.0 % 310  1.3 % Total notes payable and short-term borrowings $ 3,552   $ 3,755    Notes Payable and Short-Term Borrowings Notes payable and short-term borrowings, including the current portion of long-term debt, were as follows: HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 126/149 119 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 127/149 Table of Contents (1) Other, including capital lease obligations includes $70 million and $98 million as of October 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, of borrowing- and funding-related activity associated with FS and its subsidiaries that are collateralized by receivables and underlying assets associated with the related capital and operating leases. For both the periods presented, the carrying amount of the assets approximated the carrying amount of the borrowings. Other, including capital lease obligations, at 1.1%-9.0%, due in calendar years 2021-2030 198  171  Fair value adjustment related to hedged debt 95  220  Unamortized debt issuance costs (37) (54) Less: current portion (2,613) (2,768) $1,000 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.883% in July 2020 at 1.45% due April 1, 2024, interest payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year $ 999 $ 999  $750 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.820% in July 2020 at 1.75% due April 1, 2026, interest payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year 749  749  $1,250 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.956% in April 2020 at 4.45% due October 2, 2023, interest payable semi-annually on April 2 and October 2 of each year 1,250  1,250  $1,000 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.817% in April 2020 at 4.65% due October 1, 2024, interest payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year —  998  $500 issued at par in September 2019 at three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.68% due March 12, 2021, interest payable quarterly on March 12, June 12, September 12 and December 12 of each year —  500  $1,000 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.979% in September 2019 at 2.25% due April 1, 2023, interest payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year 1,000  1,000  $500 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.861% in September 2018 at 3.5%, due October 5, 2021, interest payable semi-annually on April 5 and October 5 of each year —  500  $800 issued at par in September 2018 at three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.72% due October 5, 2021, interest payable quarterly on January 5, April 5, July 5 and October 5 of each year —  800  $1,350 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.802% in October 2015 at 4.4%, due October 15, 2022, interest payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year 1,349  1,349  $2,500 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.725% in October 2015 at 4.9%, due October 15, 2025, interest payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year 2,497  2,497  $750 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.942% in October 2015 at 6.2%, due October 15, 2035, interest payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year 750  750  $1,500 issued at discount to par at a price of 99.932% in October 2015 at 6.35%, due October 15, 2045, interest payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year 1,499  1,499  $753 issued in June 2021, in six tranches at a weighted average price of 99.99% and a weighted average interest rate of 0.58%, payable monthly from August 2021 with a stated final maturity date of March 2029 636  —  $1,000 issued in March 2021, in six tranches at a weighted average price of 99.99% and a weighted average interest rate of 0.49%, payable monthly from April 2021 with a stated final maturity date of March 2031 676  —  $1,000 issued in June 2020, in six tranches at a weighted average price of 99.99% and a weighted average interest rate of 1.19%, payable monthly from August 2020 with a stated final maturity date of July 2030 442  822 $755 issued in February 2020 of in six tranches at a weighted average price of 99.99% and a weighted average interest rate of 1.87%, payable monthly from April 2020 with a stated final maturity date of February 2030 261  519  $763 issued in September 2019, in six tranches at a discount to par, at a weighted average price of 99.99% and a weighted average interest rate of 2.31%, payable monthly from November 2019 with a stated final maturity date of September 2029 145  385 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 128/149 Table of Contents 2024. The Company recognized $100 million as early debt redemption costs within Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 2021, and $800 million of its outstanding Floating Rate Senior Notes at three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.72% due October 5, 2021. their original maturity date. 2020. These notes were fully hedged with interest rate swaps. As part of the transaction, the Company terminated and settled the related hedges and incurred make-whole premium provision charges of $7 million. of 1.75% Senior Notes due April 1, 2026. The net proceeds from this offerings, together with the cash on hand, were used to fund the redemption of the $3.0 billion outstanding principal amount of the 3.60% Notes due October 15, 2020. $1.0 billion of 4.65% Senior Notes due October 1, 2024. The net proceeds of the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of existing debt. debt to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates, or hedge the variability of cash flows in the interest payments associated with its variable-rate debt. Interest rates on long-term debt in the table above have not been adjusted to reflect the impact of any interest rate swaps. maintains a third program. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's U.S. program provides for the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $4.75 billion which was increased from $4.0 billion in March 2020. Hewlett Packard Enterprise's euro commercial paper program provides for the issuance of commercial paper outside of the U.S. denominated in U.S. dollars, euros or British pounds up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $3.0 billion or the equivalent in those alternative currencies. The combined aggregate principal amount of commercial paper outstanding under those programs at any one time cannot exceed the $4.75 billion as authorized by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Board of Directors. In addition, the Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary's euro Commercial Paper/Certificate of Deposit Program provides for the issuance of commercial paper in various currencies of up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under the Parent Programs, and $705 million and $677 million, respectively, were outstanding under the subsidiary's program. Hewlett Packard Enterprise Unsecured Senior Notes On October 29, 2021, the Company redeemed $1 billion of 4.65% Senior Notes with an original maturity date of October 1, On September 7, 2021, the Company redeemed $500 million of 3.5% Senior Notes with an original maturity date of October 5, On March 12, 2021, the Company repaid $500 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes at three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.68% on On August 17, 2020, the Company redeemed $3.0 billion of 3.60% Senior Notes with an original maturity date of October 15, On July 17, 2020, the Company completed its offering of $1.0 billion of 1.45% Senior Notes due April 1, 2024 and $750 million On April 9, 2020, the Company completed its offering of $1.3 billion of 4.45% Senior Notes due October 2, 2023 and https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 129/149 Table of Contents under the revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including support of the commercial paper program. Commitments under the Credit Agreement are available for a period of five years, which period may be extended, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, by up to two one-year periods. Commitment fees, interest rates and other terms of borrowing under the credit facility vary based on Hewlett Packard Enterprise's external credit rating. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Tax (provision) benefit —  (18) (120) (5) (143) Balance at end of period $ 15 $ 81 $ (2,545) $ (466) $ (2,915) Total $ 12,457  Revolving Credit Facility We maintain a $4.75 billion five year senior unsecured committed credit facility that was entered into in August 2019. Loans https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 130/149 Table of Contents (1) Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on stranded tax effects. Dividends declared were $0.48 per common share in fiscal 2021 and $0.36 per common share in fiscal 2020. payable on January 7, 2022, to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 10, 2021. which was refreshed with additional share repurchase authorizations of $3.0 billion, $5.0 billion and $2.5 billion on May 24, 2016, October 16, 2017 and February 21, 2018, respectively. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. resulted from the pandemic. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, the Company resumed its share repurchase activity. open market repurchases and there were no unsettled open market repurchases outstanding as of October 31, 2020. Additionally, the Company had unsettled open market repurchases of 0.8 million shares as of October 31, 2021. Shares repurchased during the fiscal 2021 were recorded as a $0.2 billion reduction to stockholders' equity. As of October 31, 2021, the Company had a remaining authorization of $1.9 billion for future share repurchases. Dividends The stockholders of HPE common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and as declared by HPE's Board of Directors. On November 30, 2021, the Company declared a regular cash dividend of $0.12 per share on the Company's common stock, Share Repurchase Program On October 13, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a $3.0 billion authorization, In fiscal 2021, the Company repurchased and settled a total of 14.7 million shares under its share repurchase program through HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 131/149 Table of Contents open market repurchases, which included 0.5 million shares that were unsettled open market purchase as of October 31, 2019. As of October 31, 2020, the Company had no unsettled open market repurchases of shares. Shares repurchased during fiscal 2020 were recorded as a $0.3 billion reduction to stockholders' equity. As of October 31, 2020, the Company had a remaining authorization of $2.1 billion for future share repurchases. outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted net EPS includes the weighted-average dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units, stock options, and performance-based awards. (1) The Company excludes shares potentially issuable under employee stock plans that could dilute basic net EPS in the future from the calculation of diluted net earnings (loss) per share, as their effect, if included, would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented. intellectual property, commercial, securities, employment, employee benefits and environmental matters, which arise in the ordinary course of business. In addition, as part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. (formerly known as "Hewlett-Packard Company") agreed to cooperate with each other in managing certain existing litigation related to both parties' businesses. The Separation and Distribution Agreement included provisions that allocate liability and financial responsibility for pending litigation involving the parties, as well as provide for cross-indemnification of the parties against liabilities to one party arising out of liabilities allocated to the other party. The Separation and Distribution Agreement also included provisions that assign to the parties responsibility for managing pending and future litigation related to the general corporate matters of HP Inc. arising prior to the Separation. Hewlett Packard Enterprise records a liability when it believes that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine both the probability of having incurred a liability and the estimated amount of the liability. Hewlett Packard Enterprise reviews these matters at least quarterly and adjusts these liabilities to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, Hewlett Packard Enterprise believes it has valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies. Hewlett Packard Enterprise believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of October 31, 2021, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in connection with such matters in excess of the amounts recognized in its financial statements. Basic $ 2.62 $ (0.25) $ 0.78  Diluted $ 2.58 $ (0.25) $ 0.77  In fiscal 2020, the Company repurchased and settled a total of 25.3 million shares under its share repurchase program through https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 132/149 Table of Contents the Superior Court of California, County of Santa Clara alleging that HPE pays its California-based female employees "systemically lower compensation" than HPE pays male employees performing substantially similar work. The complaint alleges various California state law claims, including California's Equal Pay Act, Fair Employment and Housing Act, and Unfair Competition Law, and seeks certification of a California-only class of female employees employed in certain "Covered Positions." The complaint seeks damages, statutory and civil penalties, attorneys' fees and costs. On April 2, 2019, HPE filed a demurrer to all causes of action and an alternative motion to strike portions of the complaint. On July 2, 2019, the court denied HPE’s demurrer as to the claims of the putative class and granted HPE's demurrer as to the claims of the individual plaintiffs. Intelligence (the "DRI") issued show cause notices to Hewlett-Packard India Sales Private Ltd ("HP India"), a subsidiary of HP Inc., seven HP India employees and one former HP India employee alleging that HP India underpaid customs duties while importing products and spare parts into India and seeking to recover an aggregate of approximately $370 million, plus penalties. Prior to the issuance of the show cause notices, HP India deposited approximately $16 million with the DRI and agreed to post a provisional bond in exchange for the DRI's agreement to not seize HP India products and spare parts and to not interrupt the transaction of business by HP India. certain duties and penalties against HP India and the named individuals of approximately $386 million, of which HP India had already deposited $9 million. On December 11, 2012, HP India voluntarily deposited an additional $10 million in connection with the products- related show cause notice. On April 20, 2012, the Commissioner issued an order on the parts-related show cause notice affirming certain duties and penalties against HP India and certain of the named individuals of approximately $17 million, of which HP India had already deposited $7 million. After the order, HP India deposited an additional $3 million in connection with the parts-related show cause notice to avoid certain penalties. deposit of remaining demand amounts as a condition for hearing the appeals. The Customs Department has also filed cross-appeals before the Customs Tribunal. On January 24, 2013, the Customs Tribunal ordered HP India to deposit an additional $24 million against the products order, which HP India deposited in March 2013. The Customs Tribunal did not order any additional deposit to be made under the parts order. In December 2013, HP India filed applications before the Customs Tribunal seeking early hearing of the appeals as well as an extension of the stay of deposit as to HP India and the individuals already granted until final disposition of the appeals. On February 7, 2014, the application for extension of the stay of deposit was granted by the Customs Tribunal until disposal of the appeals. On October 27, 2014, the Customs Tribunal commenced hearings on the cross-appeals of the Commissioner's orders. The Customs Tribunal rejected HP India's request to remand the matter to the Commissioner on procedural grounds. The hearings were scheduled to reconvene on April 6, 2015, and again on November 3, 2015, April 11, 2016, and January 15, 2019, but were canceled at the request of the Customs Tribunal. The hearing was again rescheduled for January 20, 2021 but was postponed and has not yet been rescheduled. former subsidiary of HP Inc. in Brazil ("HP Brazil") that it had initiated administrative proceedings to consider whether to suspend HP Brazil's right to bid and contract with ECT related to alleged improprieties in the bidding and contracting processes whereby employees of HP Brazil and employees of several other companies allegedly coordinated their bids and fixed results for three ECT contracts in 2007 and 2008. In late July 2011, ECT notified HP Brazil it had decided to apply the penalties against HP Brazil and suspend HP Brazil's right to bid and contract with ECT for five years, based upon the evidence before it. In August 2011, HP Brazil appealed ECT's decision. In April 2013, ECT rejected HP Brazil's appeal, and the administrative proceedings were closed with the penalties against HP Brazil remaining in place. In parallel, in September 2011, HP Brazil filed a civil action against ECT seeking to have ECT's decision revoked. HP Brazil also requested an injunction suspending the application of the penalties until a final ruling on the merits of the case. The court of first instance has not issued a decision on the merits of the case, but it has denied HP Brazil's request for injunctive relief. HP Brazil appealed the denial of its request for injunctive relief to the intermediate appellate court, which issued a preliminary ruling denying the request for injunctive relief but reducing the length of the sanctions from five to two years. HP Brazil appealed that decision and, in December 2011, obtained a ruling staying enforcement of ECT's sanctions until a final ruling on the merits of the case. HP Brazil expects any appeal of the decision on the merits to last several years. 2016 and an amended complaint was filed on December 19, 2016 in the United States District Court for the Ross and Rogus v. Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. On November 8, 2018, a putative class action complaint was filed in India Directorate of Revenue Intelligence Proceedings.  On April 30 and May 10, 2010, the India Directorate of Revenue ECT Proceedings.  In January 2011, the postal service of Brazil, Empresa Brasileira de Correios e Telégrafos ("ECT"), notified a Forsyth, et al. vs. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. This purported class and collective action was filed on August 18, HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 133/149 Table of Contents Northern District of California, against HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise (collectively, "Defendants") alleging Defendants violated the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"), the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, California public policy and the California Business and Professions Code by terminating older workers and replacing them with younger workers.  Plaintiffs seek to certify a nationwide collective action under the ADEA comprised of all individuals age 40 years and older who had their employment terminated by an HP entity pursuant to a work force reduction ("WFR") plan on or after December 9, 2014 for individuals terminated in deferral states and on or after April 8, 2015 in non-deferral states. Plaintiffs also seek to certify a Rule 23 class under California law comprised of all persons 40 years or older employed by Defendants in the state of California and terminated pursuant to a WFR plan on or after August 18, 2012. Following the filing of Plaintiffs' Fourth Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Preliminary Class Certification on December 30, 2020. On April 14, 2021, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Conditional Class Certification was granted. The conditionally certified collective action consists of all individuals who had their employment terminated by Defendants pursuant to a WFR Plan on or after November 1, 2015, and who were 40 years or older at the time of such termination. The collective action excludes all individuals who signed a Waiver and General Release Agreement or an Agreement to Arbitrate Claims. California, County of Santa Clara in connection with Oracle's March 2011 announcement that it was discontinuing software support for HP Inc.'s Itanium-based line of mission critical servers. HP Inc. asserted, among other things, that Oracle's actions breached the contract that was signed by the parties as part of the settlement of the litigation relating to Oracle's hiring of Mark Hurd. Trial was bifurcated into two phases. HP Inc. prevailed in the first phase of the trial, in which the court ruled that the contract at issue required Oracle to continue to offer its software products on HP Inc.'s Itanium-based servers for as long as HP Inc. decided to sell such servers.  Phase 2 of the trial was then postponed by Oracle's appeal of the trial court's denial of Oracle's "anti-SLAPP" motion, in which Oracle argued that HP Inc.'s damages claim infringed on Oracle's First Amendment rights. On August 27, 2015, the California Court of Appeal rejected Oracle's appeal.  The matter was remanded to the trial court for Phase 2 of the trial, which began on May 23, 2016, and was submitted to the jury on June 29, 2016. On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP Inc., awarding HP Inc. approximately $3.0 billion in damages: $1.7 billion for past lost profits and $1.3 billion for future lost profits. On October 20, 2016, the court entered judgment for this amount with interest accruing until the judgment is paid. Oracle's motion for a new trial was denied on December 19, 2016, and Oracle filed its notice of appeal from the trial court's judgment on January 17, 2017. On February 2, 2017, HP Inc. filed a notice of cross-appeal challenging the trial court's denial of prejudgment interest. On May 16, 2019, HP Inc. filed its application to renew the judgment. As of May 16, 2019, the renewed judgment is approximately $3.8 billion. Daily interest on the renewed judgment is now accruing at $1 million and will be recorded upon receipt. On June 14, 2021, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment of the trial court. Oracle filed a Petition for Rehearing with the California Court of Appeal, which was denied on July 8, 2021. On July 26, 2021, Oracle filed a Petition for Review with the California Supreme Court. The California Supreme Court denied the petition on September 29, 2021, and the California Court of Appeal issued the remittitur on September 30, 2021. On October 12, 2021, Oracle paid $4.66 billion, reflecting all amounts owed on the judgment plus accrued interest. Pursuant to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement between HP Inc. and HPE, this amount was split evenly between the parties following the reimbursement of approximately $48 million in pre-separation legal costs incurred by HPE in prosecution of the litigation. In total, HPE has received payment of approximately $2.35 billion. On October 27, 2021, HP Inc. filed an acknowledgement of full satisfaction of judgment. Oracle has until December 28, 2021 to file a petition for certiorari asking the United States Supreme Court for review. Review by the United States Supreme Court is discretionary, and we believe the likelihood the award of damages will be reduced or reversed is remote. complaint against HPE in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging copyright infringement, interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective economic relations, and unfair competition. Oracle’s claims arise out of HPE's prior use of a third-party maintenance provider named Terix Computer Company, Inc. ("Terix"). Oracle contends that in connection with HPE's use of Terix as a subcontractor for certain customers of HPE's multivendor support business, Oracle's copyrights were infringed, and HPE is liable for vicarious and contributory infringement and related claims. The lawsuit against HPE follows a prior lawsuit brought by Oracle against Terix in 2013 relating to Terix's alleged unauthorized provision of Solaris patches to customers on Oracle hardware. On January 29, 2019, the court granted HPE's Motion for Summary Judgment as to all of Oracle's claims. On February 20, 2019, the court entered judgment in favor of HPE, dismissing Oracle's claims in their entirety. Oracle appealed the trial court's ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On August 20, 2020, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued its ruling, affirming in part and reversing in part the trial court's decision granting summary judgment in favor of HPE. On October 6, 2020, the matter was remanded to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Hewlett-Packard Company v. Oracle (Itanium). On June 15, 2011, HP Inc. filed suit against Oracle in the Superior Court of Oracle America, Inc., et al. v. Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (Terix copyright matter). On March 22, 2016, Oracle filed a HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 134/149 Table of Contents June 4, 2021, the Court issued an order denying HPE’s motion for summary judgment and granting-in-part Oracle’s motion for partial summary judgment as to a certain of HPE’s defenses. The Court has rescheduled the start of trial to May 23, 2022. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that various Hewlett Packard Enterprise switches and access points infringe Network-1's patent relating to the 802.3af and 802.3at "Power over Ethernet" standards. Network-1 seeks damages, attorneys' fees and costs, and declaratory and injunctive relief. A jury trial was conducted beginning on November 6, 2017. On November 13, 2017, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HPE, finding that HPE did not infringe Network-1's patent and that the patent was invalid. On August 29, 2018, the court denied Network-1's motion for a new trial on infringement and entered the jury's verdict finding that HPE does not infringe the relevant Network-1 patent. The court also granted Network-1's motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law on validity. Network-1 appealed the jury verdict of non-infringement to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. HPE cross-appealed the court's decision to grant Network-1's motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law on validity. On September 24, 2020, the Federal Circuit issued its ruling, affirming-in-part and reversing-in-part the jury's verdict, and finding that an erroneous claim construction was presented to the jury that prejudiced Network-1. The matter has been remanded back to United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas for further proceedings consistent with the Federal Circuit's ruling. On May 7, 2021, the District Court issued an order granting Network-1's motion for a new trial. The parties have agreed to the terms of a settlement that resolves the litigation with no material financial statements impact. The lawsuit was dismissed on August 13, 2021 and the matter is now closed. Networks, Commscope and Netgear in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and the United States International Trade Commission (“ITC”). Both complaints allege infringement of four patents, and the ITC complaint defines the “accused products” as “routers, access points, controllers, network management servers, other networking products, and hardware and software components thereof.” The ITC action was instituted on October 23, 2020. The District of Delaware action has been stayed pending resolution of the ITC action. The evidentiary hearing before the ITC has been completed. On December 7, 2021, the Administrative Law Judge issued his initial determination finding no violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act. A public version of the initial determination will be available by January 7, 2022. The ITC must decide whether to adopt the Administrative Law Judge’s findings or grant review of the initial determination no later than February 7, 2022. Shared Litigation with HP Inc., DXC and Micro Focus Enterprise and DXC, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Seattle SpinCo, the parties to each agreement agreed to cooperate with each other in managing certain existing litigation related to both parties' businesses. The Separation and Distribution Agreements also included provisions that assign to the parties responsibility for managing pending and future litigation related to the general corporate matters of HP Inc. (in the case of the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise from HP Inc.) or of Hewlett Packard Enterprise (in the case of the separation of DXC from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and the separation of Seattle SpinCo from Hewlett Packard Enterprise), in each case arising prior to the applicable separation. and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the substances and materials used in the Company's products, the energy consumption of products, services and operations and the operational or financial responsibility for recycling, treatment and disposal of those products. This includes legislation that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). The Company could incur substantial costs, its products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and it could face other sanctions, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, including those related to addressing climate change and other environmental, social, and governance-related issues, or if its products become non-compliant with such environmental laws. The Company's potential exposure includes impacts on revenue, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean-up costs. The amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. Network-1 Technologies, Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc., et al. This patent infringement action was filed on September 15, 2011 Q3 Networking Litigation. On September 21 and September 22, 2020, Q3 Networking LLC filed complaints against HPE, Aruba As part of the Separation and Distribution Agreements between Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc., Hewlett Packard In particular, the Company may become a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. or state environmental HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 135/149 Table of Contents may become a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by private parties for contribution towards clean-up costs. The Company is also contractually obligated to make financial contributions to address actions related to certain environmental liabilities, both ongoing and arising in the future, pursuant to its Separation and Distribution Agreement with HP Inc. parties pursuant to which the Company has guaranteed the performance obligations of third parties. Some of those guarantees may be backed by standby letters of credit or surety bonds. In general, the Company would be obligated to perform over the term of the guarantee in the event a specified triggering event occurs as defined by the guarantee. The Company believes the likelihood of having to perform under a material guarantee is remote. service contract is terminated as a result of the Company's non-performance under the contract or failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, the Company could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract. The Company believes the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets under these arrangements is remote. indemnify a third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of the Company or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract, which may include, for example, litigation or claims relating to past performance. The Company also provides indemnifications to certain vendors and customers against claims of IP infringement made by third parties arising from the use by such vendors and customers of the Company's software products and support services and certain other matters. Some indemnifications may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, payments made related to these indemnifications have been immaterial. Agreement with HP Inc., DXC and Micro Focus respectively, whereby the Company agreed to indemnify HP Inc., DXC and Micro Focus, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to the Company as part of the Separation, Everett and Seattle transactions. Similarly, HP Inc., DXC and Micro Focus agreed to indemnify the Company, each of its subsidiaries and each of their respective directors, officers and employees from and against all claims and liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from, among other matters, the liabilities allocated to HP Inc., DXC and Micro Focus as part of the Separation, Everett and Seattle transactions. DXC and Micro Focus respectively (the "DXC Tax Matters Agreement" and the "Micro Focus Tax Matters Agreement"). The DXC Tax Matters Agreement and the Micro Focus Tax Matters Agreement govern the rights and obligations of the Company and DXC/Micro Focus for certain pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables. The DXC Tax Matters Agreement and the Micro Focus Tax Matters Agreement generally provide that the Company will be responsible for pre-divestiture tax liabilities and will be entitled to pre- divestiture tax receivables that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to the Company's and DXC's, or Micro Focus', as applicable, U.S. and certain non-U.S. tax returns. In certain jurisdictions, the Company and DXC/Micro Focus have joint and several liability for past tax liabilities and accordingly, the Company could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. to be taxable, the Company would generally bear the tax liability, unless the taxability of the distribution is the direct result of actions taken by DXC/Micro Focus, in which case DXC/Micro Focus would be responsible for any taxes imposed on the distribution. The Company has entered into service contracts with certain of its clients that are supported by financing arrangements. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 136/149 Table of Contents (1) The actual amount that the Company may receive or pay could vary depending upon the outcome of certain unresolved tax matters, which may not be resolved for several years. (1) The Company includes the current portion in Other accrued liabilities, and amounts due after one year in Other non-current liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction, as well as settlements that the Company has reached with third parties, requiring it to pay determined amounts over a specified period of time. These unconditional purchase obligations are related principally to inventory purchase, software maintenance and support services and other items. Unconditional purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. Unconditional Purchase Obligations As of October 31, 2021, the Company had unconditional purchase obligations of approximately $768 million. These (1) HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 137/149 Table of Contents the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of October 31, 2021 and October 31, 2020, the Company's Investments in equity interests were $2.2 billion and primarily related to a 49% equity interest in H3C Technologies ("H3C"). unrealized profits on intra-entity sales, and the amortization of basis difference, within Earnings from equity interests in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. assets fair value of H3C, created a basis difference of $2.5 billion, which was allocated as follows: weighted-average life of the H3C intangible assets is five years and is being amortized using the straight-line method. As of October 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company determined that no impairment of its equity method investments existed. (1) In fiscal 2021, earnings from equity interests, net of taxes included $260 million from H3C and $32 million from other venture investments. Fiscal Year In millions 2022 $ 458  2023 175  2024 53  2025 50  2026 9  Thereafter 23 The Company amortizes the basis difference over the estimated useful lives of the assets that gave rise to this difference. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 138/149 Table of Contents This amount was accounted for as a return on investment and reflected as a reduction in the carrying balance of the Company's Investments in equity interests in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. products and services. During fiscals 2021, 2020 and 2019, HPE recorded approximately $794 million, $737 million and $897 million of sales to H3C and $150 million, $215 million and $202 million of purchases from H3C, respectively. Payables due to H3C as of October 31, 2021 and 2020 were approximately $32 million and $29 million, respectively. Receivables due from H3C as of October 31, 2021 and 2020 were approximately $70 million and $19 million, respectively. During fiscals 2021 and 2020, the Company received a cash dividend of $184 million and $165 million, respectively, from H3C. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 139/149 Table of Contents ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures. financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act as of the end of the period covered by this report (the "Evaluation Date"). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded as of the Evaluation Date that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective such that the information relating to the Company, including our consolidated subsidiaries, required to be disclosed in our SEC reports (i) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and (ii) is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Accounting Firm on our internal control over financial reporting in Item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during our most recently completed fiscal quarter. Based on that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that there has not been any change in our internal control over financial reporting during that quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. We have not experienced any material impact to our internal controls over financial reporting even though our global workforce continues to primarily work-from-home due to COVID-19. We are continually monitoring and assessing the COVID-19 situation and its impact on our internal controls. ITEM 9B. Other Information. retirement agreement (the “Agreement”) that amended Mr. Melkote’s outstanding restricted stock unit (“RSU”) award agreements to provide that the underlying RSU awards shall be eligible to continue vesting on their current vesting schedule after Mr. Melkote’s December 31, 2021 retirement, subject to (i) all existing performance vesting criteria for performance-adjusted RSUs, (ii) Mr. Melkote’s entry into a standard release of claims and (iii) Mr. Melkote’s ongoing adherence to standard non-competition and non- solicitation covenants for the duration of the RSU awards’ vesting schedule. The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified entirely by the Agreement itself, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.32 and incorporated by reference herein. provisions of U.S. Executive Order No. 13382 issued in 2005 (“Executive Order 13382”). On the same day, the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control updated General License 1B (“General License 1B”) which generally authorizes U.S. companies to engage in certain licensing, permitting, certification, notification and related transactions with the FSB as may be required for the importation, distribution or use of information technology products in the Russian Federation. Our local subsidiary is required to engage on a regular basis with the FSB as a licensing authority and file documents in order to conduct business within the Russian Federation. There are no gross revenues or net profits directly associated with any such dealings by us with the FSB and all such dealings are explicitly authorized by General License 1B. We plan to continue these activities as required to continue to conduct business in the Russian Federation to the extent permitted by applicable law. Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian Federation (“Executive Order 14024”), implementing additional U.S. sanctions against the Russian government and against Russian actors that threaten U.S. interests, including certain technology companies that support the Russian Intelligence Service. The U.S. Secretary of the Treasury designated Pozitiv None. The following disclosure is being made under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act: On March 2, 2021, the U.S. Secretary of State designated the Russian Federal Security Service (“FSB”) as a party subject to the On April 15, 2021, the U.S. Government issued an executive order on Blocking Property with Respect to Specified Harmful https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 140/149 Table of Contents Teknolodzhiz, AO (“Positive Technologies”) under Executive Order 14024 and Executive Order 13382. Prior to its designation, HPE’s local Russian subsidiary, occasionally through distributors and resellers, had sold equipment to and entered into service contracts with Positive Technologies. HPE’s local subsidiary had also entered into an original equipment manufacturing agreement with Positive Technologies and approved it as a reseller. Following the sanctions designation, our local subsidiary immediately initiated procedures to terminate its relationship with Positive Technologies. HPE does not plan to engage in any further transactions with this entity, except wind down activities that are authorized by OFAC going forward. In fiscal 2021, the total cash received, excluding sales tax, from our business with Positive Technologies since its designation was $33,412, of which $1,755 has been recognized as revenue and the remaining $31,657 has been recorded as deferred revenue. There are no identifiable net profits associated with HPE’s relationship with Positive Technologies for this reporting period. Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 141/149 Table of Contents ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. incorporated by reference from Part I, Item 1, above. ITEM 11. Executive Compensation. ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. Fees and Services" in the Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein by reference. • Information regarding directors of Hewlett Packard Enterprise including those who are standing for reelection and any persons nominated to become directors of Hewlett Packard Enterprise is set forth under "Our Board—Board Leadership Structure" and/or "Proposals to be Voted On—Proposal No. 1—Election of Directors." • Information regarding Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Audit Committee and designated "audit committee financial experts" is set forth under "Our Board—Committees of the Board—Audit Committee." • Information on Hewlett Packard Enterprise's code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, also known as the "Standards of Business Conduct," and on Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Corporate Governance Guidelines is set forth under "Governance—Governance Documents." • Information regarding Hewlett Packard Enterprise's compensation of its named executive officers is set forth under "Executive Compensation." • Information regarding Hewlett Packard Enterprise's compensation of its directors is set forth under "Our Board—Director Compensation and Stock Ownership Guidelines." • The report of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's HR and Compensation Committee is set forth under "Executive Compensation— HRC Committee Report on Executive Compensation." • Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners, directors and executive officers is set forth under "Governance—Stock Ownership Information—Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management." • Information regarding Hewlett Packard Enterprise's equity compensation plans, including both stockholder approved plans and non-stockholder approved plans, is set forth in the section entitled "Equity Compensation Plan Information." • Information regarding transactions with related persons is set forth under "Governance—Related Persons Transactions Policies and Procedures." • Information regarding director independence is set forth under "Governance—Director Independence." The names of the executive officers of Hewlett Packard Enterprise and their ages, titles and biographies as of the date hereof are https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 142/149 Table of Contents ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. Financial Statements and notes thereto in Item 8 above. filed or furnished by Hewlett Packard Enterprise) is provided in the accompanying Exhibit Index. Hewlett Packard Enterprise will furnish copies of exhibits for a reasonable fee (covering the expense of furnishing copies) upon request. Stockholders may request exhibits copies by contacting: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 60 Consolidated Statements of Earnings 64 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 65 Consolidated Balance Sheets 66 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 67 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 68 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 70 (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: 1. All Financial Statements: The following financial statements are filed as part of this report under Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules are omitted as the required information is not applicable or the information is presented in the Consolidated Exhibits: A list of exhibits filed or furnished with this Annual Report on Form 10-K (or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 143/149 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form File No. Exhibit(s) Filing Date 2.10 Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2016, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Seattle SpinCo, Inc. 2.12 First Amendment to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 2, 2016, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Everett SpinCo, Inc., New Everett Merger Sub Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, and Everett Merger Sub, Inc. 2.13 First Amendment to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2016, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Everett SpinCo, Inc. 2.14 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 6, 2017, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Nebraska Merger Sub, Inc., and Nimble Storage, Inc. 2.15 Tender and Support Agreement, dated as of March 6, 2017, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Nebraska Merger Sub, Inc. and each of the persons set forth on Schedule A thereto 2.11 Employee Matters Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2016, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Seattle SpinCo, Inc. and Micro Focus International plc 2.1 Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2015, by and among Hewlett-Packard Company, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and the Other Parties Thereto 2.2 Transition Services Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2015, by and between Hewlett-Packard Company and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2.3 Employee Matters Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2015, by and between Hewlett-Packard Company and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2.4 Real Estate Matters Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2015, by and between Hewlett-Packard Company and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2.5 Master Commercial Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2015, by and between Hewlett-Packard Company and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2.6 Information Technology Service Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2015, by and between Hewlett-Packard Company and HP Enterprise Services, LLC 2.7 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 24, 2016, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Everett SpinCo, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation, and Everett Merger Sub, Inc. 2.8 Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of May 24, 2016, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Everett SpinCo, Inc. 2.9 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 7, 2016, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Seattle SpinCo, Inc., Micro Focus International plc, Seattle Holdings, Inc. and Seattle MergerSub, Inc. 136 8-K 001-37483 2.1 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 2.2 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 2.4 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 2.5 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 2.6 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 2.7 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 2.1 May 26, 2016 8-K 001-37483 2.2 May 26, 2016 8-K 001-37483 2.1 September 7, 2016 8-K 001-37483 2.2 September 7, 2016 8-K 001-37483 2.3 September 7, 2016 8-K 001-37483 2.1 November 2, 2016 8-K 001-37483 2.2 November 2, 2016 8-K 001-37483 99.1 March 7, 2017 8-K 001-37483 99.2 March 7, 2017 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 144/149 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form File No. Exhibit(s) Filing Date 2.16 Employee Matters Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Everett SpinCo, Inc., and Computer Sciences Corporation, 2.17 Tax Matters Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Everett SpinCo, Inc., and Computer Sciences Corporation 2.18 IP Matters Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP, and Everett SpinCo, Inc. 2.19 Transition Services Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Everett SpinCo, Inc. 2.20 Real Estate Matters Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Everett SpinCo, Inc. 2.21 Fourth Amendment to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Everett SpinCo, Inc. 2.22 Tax Matters Agreement, dated September 1, 2017, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Seattle SpinCo, Inc., and Micro Focus International plc 2.23 Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, dated September 1, 2017,  by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP, and Seattle SpinCo, Inc. 2.24 Transition Services Agreement, dated September 1, 2017,  by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Seattle SpinCo, Inc. 2.25 Real Estate Matters Agreement, dated September 1, 2017,  by and between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and Seattle SpinCo, Inc. 2.26 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 16, 2019, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Canopy Merger Sub, Inc., and Cray Inc. 2.27 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 11, 2020, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Santorini Merger Sub, Inc., Silver Peak Systems, Inc., and certain other parties thereto 3.1 Registrant's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation 3.2 Registrant's Amended and Restated Bylaws effective October 31, 2015 3.3 Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Redeemable Preferred Stock of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 3.4 Certificate of Designation of Series B Junior Participating Redeemable Preferred Stock of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 4.1 Indenture, dated as of October 9, 2015, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee 4.2 Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 9, 2015, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 4.400% notes due 2022 137 8-K 001-38033 2.1 April 6, 2017 8-K 001-38033 2.2 April 6, 2017 8-K 001-38033 2.3 April 6, 2017 8-K 001-38033 2.4 April 6, 2017 8-K 001-38033 2.5 April 6, 2017 8-K 001-38033 2.6 April 6, 2017 8-K 001-37483 2.1 May 17, 2019 8-K 001-37483 2.1 July 13, 2020 8-K 001-37483 3.1 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 3.2 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 3.1 March 20, 2017 8-K 001-37483 3.2 March 20, 2017 8-K 001-37483 4.1 October 13, 2015 8-K 001-37483 4.5 October 13, 2015 2.1 September 1, 2017 2.2 September 1, 2017 2.3 September 1, 2017 2.4 September 1, 2017 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 145/149 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form File No. Exhibit(s) Filing Date 4.10 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 9, 2015, by and among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Hewlett-Packard Company, and the representatives of the initial purchasers of the Notes 4.12 Description of the Registrant's Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 10.1 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2015 Stock Incentive Plan (amended and restated January 25, 2017)* 10.2 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2021 Stock Incentive Plan* 10.3 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Severance and Long-Term Incentive Change in Control Plan for Executive Officers* 10.4 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Grandfathered Executive Deferred Compensation Plan* 10.5 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant Agreement* 8-K 001-37483 10.4 November 5, 2015 4.11 Form of Indenture between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee 4.3 Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 9, 2015, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 4.900% notes due 2025 4.4 Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 9, 2015, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 6.200% notes due 2035 4.5 Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 9, 2015, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 6.350% notes due 2045 4.6 Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 13, 2019, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 2.250% notes due 2023 4.7 Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2020, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 4.450% notes due 2023 4.8 Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2020, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company's 1.450% notes due 2024 4.9 Eighteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 17, 2020, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, relating to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company''s 1.750% notes due 2026 138 10-12B/A 001-37483 10.4 September 28, 2015 S-3ASR 333-222102 4.5 December 15, 2017 10-K 001-37483 4.16 December 10, 2020 8-K 001-37483 4.6 October 13, 2015 8-K 001-37483 4.7 October 13, 2015 8-K 001-37483 4.8 October 13, 2015 8-K 001-37483 4.2 September 13, 2019 8-K 001-37483 4.2 April 9, 2020 8-K 001-37483 4.2 July 17, 2020 8-K 001-37483 4.3 July 17, 2020 8-K 001-37483 4.12 October 13, 2015 8-K 001-37483 10.1 January 30, 2017 S-8 333-255839 4.4 May 6, 2021 S-8 333-207679 4.4 October 30, 2015 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 146/149 Table of Contents Exhibit Number Exhibit Description Form File No. Exhibit(s) Filing Date 10.10 Form of Performance-Adjusted Restricted Stock Units Grant Agreement, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2016* 10.12 Niara, Inc. 2013 Equity Incentive Plan* S-8 333-216481 4.3 March 6, 2017 10.13 Nimble Storage, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended* 10.14 SimpliVity Corporation 2009 Stock Plan* S-8 333-217438 4.3 April 24, 2017 10.15 Silicon Graphics International Corp. 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended* 10.16 Cloud Technology Partners, Inc. 2011 Equity Incentive Plan* 10.17 Amendment to the Cloud Technology Partners, Inc. 2011 Equity Incentive Plan* 10.18 Plexxi Inc. 2011 Stock Plan* S-8 333-226181 4.3 July 16, 2018 10.19 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as amended and restated on July 18, 2018, effective as of October 8, 2015) 10.20 Form of Restricted Stock Units Grant Agreement 10-Q 001-37483 10.30 September 4, 2018 10.21 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated December 1, 2018)* 10.22 First Amendment to the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company Severance and Long-Term Incentive Change in Control Plan for Executive Officers* 10.23 BlueData Software Inc. 2012 Stock Incentive Plan* S-8 333-229449 4.3 January 31, 2019 10.24 Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 16, 2019, among Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, the lenders Party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Processing Agent and Co-Administrative Agent and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Administrative Agent 10.25 Cray Inc. 2013 Equity Incentive Plan (as amended and restated June 11, 2019)* 10.26 Termination and Mutual Release Agreement dated as of October 30, 2019 by and between HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company 10.27 Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2019, between Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Antonio Neri* 10.28 Silver Peak Systems, Inc. (fka Cheyenne Networks, Inc.) 2004 Stock Plan, as amended* 10.29 Silver Peak Systems, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended* 10.11 Description of Amendment to Equity Awards (incorporated by reference to Item 5.02 of the 8-K filed on May 26, 2016)* 10.6 Form of Performance-Contingent Non-Qualified Stock Option Grant Agreement* 10.7 Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Options Grant Agreement* 10.8 Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Units Grant Agreement* 10.9 Form of Restricted Stock Units Grant Agreement, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2016* 139 10-Q 001-37483 10.14 March 10, 2016 10-Q 001-37483 10.15 March 10, 2016 10-K 000-51333 10.3 September 10, 2012 10-Q 001-37483 10.29 September 4, 2018 10-K 001-37483 10.27 December 12, 2018 10-K 001-37483 10.29 December 12, 2018 10-K 001-37483 10.31 December 13, 2019 10-Q 001-37483 10.32 March 9, 2020 8-K 001-37483 10.8 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 10.9 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 10.10 November 5, 2015 8-K 001-37483 10.1 May 26, 2016 8-K 001-37483 10.1 August 20, 2019 S-8 333-217349 4.3 April 18, 2017 S-8 333-221254 4.3 November 1, 2017 S-8 333-221254 4.4 November 1, 2017 S-8 333-234033 4.3 October 1, 2019 S-8 333-249731 4.3 October 29, 2020 S-8 333-249731 4.4 October 29, 2020 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 147/149 Table of Contents term debt not filed herewith as to which the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document‡ 101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document‡ 101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document‡ 101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document‡ 101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document‡ 101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document‡ Number Exhibit Description Form File No. Exhibit(s) Filing Date 10.30 2021 Stock Incentive Plan – Form of Restricted Stock Units Grant Agreement*‡ 10.31 2021 Stock Incentive Plan – Form of Performance- Adjusted Restricted Stock Units Grant Agreement*‡ 10.32 Retirement Agreement dated as of December 8, 2021 by and between Keerti Melkote and Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company*‡ 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm‡ 31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a- 14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended‡ 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a- 14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended‡ 32 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002† None.   Incorporated by Reference HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 148/149 Table of Contents report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Tarek A. Robbiati, John F. Schultz and Rishi Varma, or any of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that either of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated Date: December 10, 2021 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY   By: /s/ Tarek A. Robbiati Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this /s/ Daniel L. Ammann /s/ Ann M. Livermore /s/ Tarek A. Robbiati Executive Vice President and Chief /s/ Raymond J. Lane /s/ Pamela L. Carter /s/ Patricia F. Russo /s/ George R. Kurtz Director December 10, 2021 Daniel L. Ammann Director December 10, 2021 Ann M. Livermore /s/ Antonio F. Neri President, Chief Executive Officer and /s/ Jean M. Hobby Director December 10, 2021 Raymond J. Lane  December 10, 2021 Tarek A. Robbiati Director December 10, 2021 Pamela L. Carter Chairman December 10, 2021 Patricia F. Russo Director December 10, 2021 George R. Kurtz December 10, 2021 Antonio F. Director December 10, 2021 Jean M. Hobby /s/ Jeff T. Ricci Senior Vice President and Controller   (Principal Accounting Officer) December 10, 2021 Jeff T. Ricci 141 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Tarek A. Robbiati https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/0001645590/000164559021000068/hpe-20211031.htm 149/149 Table of Contents /s/ Mary Agnes Wilderotter Director December 10, 2021 Mary Agnes Wilderotter /s/ Raymond E. Ozzie /s/ Charles H. Noski Director December 10, 2021 Raymond E. Ozzie /s/ Gary M. Reiner Director December 10, 2021 Charles H. Noski Director December 10, 2021 Gary M. Reiner