Table of Contents ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act). Yes No o Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Yes o No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (Section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act: If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C.7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes No The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant on March 31, 2020 based upon the closing price of such stock on the New York Stock Exchange on March 31, 2020 was 10,238,925,461. The number of shares of common stock of AmerisourceBergen Corporation outstanding as of October 31, 2020 was 204,249,747. Portions of the following document are incorporated by reference in the Part of this report indicated below: Part III Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o Smaller reporting company Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of exchange on which registered Common stock ABC New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 1300 Morris Drive Chesterbrook, PA 19087-5594 AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM TO incorporation or organization) Identification No.) (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED September 30, 2020 Delaware 23-3079390 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  Commission file number 1-16671 Documents Incorporated by Reference Washington, D.C. 20549 UNITED STATES (610) 727-7000 Table of Contents 1. Business 1 1A. Risk Factors 8 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 2. Properties 18 3. Legal Proceedings 18 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 6. Selected Financial Data 24 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 9B. Other Information 88 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 88 11. Executive Compensation 88 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 88 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 89 16. Form 10-K Summary 94 Information about our Executive Officers 19 Signatures 95 TABLE OF CONTENTS Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS AmerisourceBergen is one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. We deliver innovative programs and services designed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply chain in both human and animal health. More specifically, we distribute a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name, and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers located in the United States and select global markets, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, physician practices, medical and dialysis clinics, veterinarians, and other customers. Additionally, we furnish healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers with an assortment of related services, including data analytics, outcomes research, reimbursement and pharmaceutical consulting services, niche premium logistics services, inventory management, pharmacy automation, pharmacy management, and packaging solutions. Industry Overview healthcare industry, are expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 3.4% from 2019 through 2024, and the growth rate is dependent, in part, on pharmaceutical manufacturer price increases. In addition to general economic conditions, factors that impact the growth of the pharmaceutical industry in the United States and other industry trends include: growing segment of the population. This age group suffers from more chronic illnesses and disabilities than the rest of the population and accounts for a substantial portion of total healthcare expenditures in the United States. such as biotechnology and gene therapy, continue to generate new pharmaceuticals and delivery methods that are more effective in treating diseases. We believe ongoing research and development expenditures by the leading pharmaceutical manufacturers will contribute to continued growth of the industry. In particular, we believe ongoing research and development of biotechnology and other specialty pharmaceutical drugs will provide opportunities for the continued growth of our specialty pharmaceuticals business. next several years. In addition, increased emphasis by managed care and other third-party payors on utilization of generics has accelerated their growth. We consider the increase in generic usage a favorable trend because generic pharmaceuticals have historically provided us with a greater gross profit margin opportunity than brand-name products, although their lower prices reduce revenue growth. Generic pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 90% of the prescription volume in the United States. encourage the use of efficient drug therapies to prevent or treat diseases. While national attention has been focused on the overall increase in aggregate healthcare costs, we believe drug therapy has had a beneficial impact on healthcare costs by reducing expensive surgeries and prolonged hospital stays. Pharmaceuticals currently account for approximately 11% of overall healthcare costs. Pharmaceutical manufacturers' continued emphasis on research and development is expected to result in the continuing introduction of cost-effective drug therapies and new uses for existing drug therapies. As used herein, the terms "Company," "AmerisourceBergen," "we," "us," or "our" refer to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, a Delaware corporation. Pharmaceutical sales in the United States, as recently estimated by IQVIA, an independent third-party provider of information to the pharmaceutical and Aging Population. The number of individuals age 65 and over in the United States is expected to exceed 63 million by 2024 and is the most rapidly Introduction of New Pharmaceuticals. Traditional research and development, as well as the advent of new research, production, and delivery methods, Increased Use of Generic Pharmaceuticals. A number of patents for widely used brand-name pharmaceutical products will continue to expire during the Increased Use of Drug Therapies. In response to rising healthcare costs, governmental and private payors have adopted cost containment measures that Table of Contents increased the number of people in the United States who are eligible to be reimbursed for all or a portion of prescription drug costs. The health reform law provides for sweeping changes to Medicare and Medicaid policies (including drug reimbursement policies), expanded disclosure requirements regarding financial arrangements within the healthcare industry, enhanced enforcement authority to prevent fraud and abuse, and new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. Subsequent legislation and rules promulgated by government agencies have made additional changes to federal drug payment policies. These policies and other legislative developments (including potential revisions to or repeal of any portions of the health reform legislation) may affect our businesses directly and or indirectly (see Government Regulation on page 6 and the risk factor titled Legal, regulatory, and legislative changes with respect to reimbursement, pricing, and contracting may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including through declining reimbursement rates on page 12 for further details). spread of COVID-19. In connection with the mitigation and containment procedures recommended by the WHO and imposed by federal, state, and local governmental authorities, we implemented measures designed to keep our employees safe and address business continuity issues at our distribution centers and other locations. We continue to evaluate and plan for the potential effects of a prolonged disruption and the related impacts on our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. These items include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of our customers and the realization of accounts receivable, decreased availability and demand for our products and services, and delays related to current and future projects. While our operational and financial performance may be significantly impacted by COVID-19, it is not possible for us to predict the duration or magnitude of the outbreak and whether it could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows (see Risk Factor - We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and the continued spread of COVID-19 is adversely affecting our business). The Company service centers and other operations in the United States and select global markets. In our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are typically the primary supplier of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare provider customers. We offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allow them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel. services to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies, health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, physicians, and veterinarians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that improve channel efficiencies and patient outcomes. Implementing this disciplined and focused strategy in a seamless and unified way has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well positioned to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following key elements of our business strategy: Optimize and Grow Our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Strategic Global Sourcing Businesses. We believe we are well positioned in size and market Legislative Developments. In 2010, the federal government enacted major health reform legislation designed to expand access to health insurance, which COVID-19 Pandemic. In March 2020, the World Health Organization ("WHO") declared a global pandemic attributable to the outbreak and continued Other economic conditions and certain risk factors could adversely affect our business and prospects (see Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 8). We serve our customers (healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers) through a geographically diverse network of distribution Our business strategy is focused on the global pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide value-added distribution and global commercialization breadth to continue to grow our distribution businesses as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. Distribution, including specialty pharmaceuticals, anchors our growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel as we provide superior distribution services and deliver value- added solutions, which improve the efficiency and competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients. We are a leader in distribution and services to community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products. We distribute plasma and other blood products, injectable pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty products. We are well positioned to service and support many of the new biotechnology therapies that are expected to be coming to market in the near future. We have introduced strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace, including our generic product private label program based in Ireland. We source generics globally, offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor our customers' compliance with our generics program. We also provide data and other valuable services to our manufacturer customers, which includes our international presence in Switzerland where we lead our global manufacturer relations and commercialization strategy. Table of Contents Operations Operating Structure. We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. Our operations as of September 30, 2020 are comprised of the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment and other operating segments that are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure, and, therefore, have been included in Other for the purpose of reportable segment presentation. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services Segment Servicing healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment's operations provide drug distribution, strategic global sourcing, and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and Acquisitions. In order to grow our core strategic offerings and to enter related markets, we have acquired and invested in businesses and will continue to consider additional acquisitions and investments. Optimize and Grow Our Global Commercialization Services and Animal Health Businesses. Our consulting service businesses help global Divestitures. In order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to time, We offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. Services for manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting, and logistical support. Our provider solutions include: our Good Neighbor Pharmacy program, which enables independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and merchandising programs Elevate Provider Network , our managed care network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and is one of the largest in the United States generic product purchasing and private label services hospital pharmacy consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies and packaging solutions for institutional and retail healthcare providers. We believe we have one of the lowest operating cost structures among all pharmaceutical distributors. Our robust distribution facility network includes a national distribution center in Columbus, OH, which offers pharmaceutical manufacturers a single shipping destination. We continue to seek opportunities to achieve increased productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse automation technology, adopt "best practices" in warehousing activities, and increase operating leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our Pharmaceutical Distribution and Strategic Global Sourcing businesses. pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their products. We believe we are the largest provider of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. We also provide outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical companies. World Courier is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. World Courier further strengthens our service offerings to global pharmaceutical manufacturers and provides an established platform for the introduction of our specialty services outside North America. MWI Animal Health ( MWI ) sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. MWI also offers its customers a variety of value-added services, including its e- commerce platform, technology management systems, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory management system, equipment procurement consultation, special order fulfillment, and educational seminars, which we believe closely integrate MWI with its customers' day-to-day operations and provide them with meaningful incentives to continue doing business with MWI. We continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our Global Commercialization Services and Animal Health businesses. consider additional divestitures. In January 2020, we decided to permanently exit the PharMEDium Healthcare Holdings LLC s ("PharMEDium") compounding business, and, as a result, the Company ceased all commercial and administrative operations related to this business in fiscal 2020. The decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium business was due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, ongoing operational, regulatory, and commercial challenges. Table of Contents equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. Through a number of operating businesses, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides pharmaceutical distribution (including plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty pharmaceutical products) and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. Additionally, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides data analytics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. Additionally, it delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. Services ("ABCS"), World Courier, and MWI. post-approval and commercialization support. World Courier, which operates in more than 50 countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. MWI is a leading animal health distribution company in the United States and in the United Kingdom. MWI sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. Additionally, MWI offers demand-creating sales force services to manufacturers. healthcare provider type or size. Customer service representatives are centralized in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services sales teams also serve national account customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensure that our customers are receiving service offerings that meet their needs. Our other operating segments each have independent sales forces that specialize in their respective product and service offerings. In addition, we have an enterprise-wide marketing team that coordinates branding and all other marketing activities across the Company. Institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate care pharmacies, and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, physicians, and physician group practices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. We are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider customers. Our manufacturer customers include branded, generic, and biotechnology manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid manufacturers. In addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. approximately 12%, respectively, of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. Our top 10 customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("GPO"), represented approximately 64% of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. The loss of any major customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations. Additionally, from time to time, significant contracts may be terminated in accordance with their terms or extended, renewed, or replaced prior to their expiration dates. If those contracts are not renewed or are extended, renewed, or replaced at less favorable terms, they may negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Suppliers. We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong. The 10 largest suppliers in fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 accounted for approximately 46% of our purchases. primary enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system. As a result, the pharmaceutical distribution facilities in the United States all now operate under a single ERP system. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services Other consists of operating segments that focus on global commercialization services and animal health and includes AmerisourceBergen Consulting ABCS, through a number of operating businesses, provides a full suite of integrated manufacturer services that range from clinical trial support to product Sales and Marketing. The majority of Pharmaceutical Distribution Services sales force is led nationally, with geographic focus and specialized by either Customers. We have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Our two largest customers, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. ("WBA") and Express Scripts, Inc. ("Express Scripts"), accounted for approximately 33% and Information Systems. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services operating segment recently transitioned its key specialty distribution businesses onto its Table of Contents ERP system provides for, among other things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory tracking. All of our other operating segments operate the majority of their businesses on their own common operating systems resulting in the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities. We continue to make investments to enhance and upgrade the operating systems utilized by our other operating segments. pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements (see Risk Factor - Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability), we expect to continue to make significant investments in our secure supply chain information systems. are intended to strengthen customer relationships by helping customers to reduce operating costs, and by providing them a platform for a number of the basic and value-added services, including product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third-party claims processing, real-time price and incentive updates, and price labels. make substantial investments to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services has warehouse operating systems, which are used to manage the majority of Pharmaceutical Distribution Services transactional volume. The warehouse operating systems have improved Pharmaceutical Distribution Services productivity and operating leverage. Competition McKesson Corporation ("McKesson"), Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal"), FFF Enterprises, Henry Schein, Inc., and UPS Logistics, among others. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services competes with both McKesson and Cardinal, as well as national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. In addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies. ABCS, World Courier, and MWI also face competition from a variety of businesses. In all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support. Intellectual Property registered in the United States and, in some cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration. conduct of our business or that are made available as products or services to customers. We generally seek to protect such intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws, and through confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections. our medication and supply dispensing equipment, certain warehousing equipment, and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. We seek patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate. third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time. Additionally, we are improving our entity-wide infrastructure environment to drive efficiency, capabilities, and speed to market. We will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology. For example, in an effort to comply with future Pharmaceutical Distribution Services has made significant investments in its electronic ordering systems. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services systems Pharmaceutical Distribution Services processes a substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices, and payments electronically, and it continues to A significant portion of our data center operations, which were previously outsourced to third-party providers, is now insourced. We face a highly competitive global environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. Our largest competitors are We use a number of trademarks and service marks. All of the principal trademarks and service marks used in the course of our business have been We have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software, and other intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the We hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products, particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, Although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, Table of Contents Human Capital perform at their full potential. As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately 22,000 employees, of which approximately 21,000 were full-time employees. More than 56% of our workforce is comprised of women, 49% is comprised of individuals with ethnically diverse backgrounds, and 30% of our Board of Directors are women. Additionally, our Executive Management Committee is made up of 43% women. any of our employees in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. However, we believe we have adequate contingency plans in place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions. Government Regulation state laws, regulations, and policies. various other federal and state authorities regulate the purchase, storage, and or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding, and distribution of controlled substances. prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing, or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease, or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing, or ordering items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. The False Claims Act prohibits knowingly submitting, or causing the submission, of false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government, and authorizes treble damages and substantial civil penalties in the case of violations. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent and varied interpretation. These laws and regulations are designed to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated, or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. At the federal level, the supply chain security legislation known as the Drug Quality and Security Act ( DQSA ) became law in 2013. The DQSA establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. The DQSA also establishes requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers, including licensing requirements applicable in states that had not previously licensed third-party logistics providers. We expect that the FDA, and eventually comparable state agencies, will promulgate implementing regulations governing wholesale distributor and third-party logistics providers. There can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the DQSA requirements, or with additional related state regulatory and licensing requirements, and any failure to comply may result in suspension or delay of certain operations and additional costs to bring our operations into compliance. These and other requirements will continue to increase the cost of our operations. The regulation of public and private health insurance and benefit programs can also affect our business and scrutiny of the healthcare delivery and reimbursement systems in the United States can be expected to continue at both the state and federal levels. This process may result in additional legislation and or regulation governing the production, delivery, or pricing of pharmaceutical products and other healthcare services. In addition, changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant additional compliance costs or the discontinuation of our ability to continue to operate certain of our distribution centers, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. purchase drugs from us. We cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices. We aspire to create healthier futures and accelerate business results by inspiring the best and brightest global talent across all dimensions of diversity to Approximately 2% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. If We are subject to extensive oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA"), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), and We and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and False Claims Act. The anti-kickback statute In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. Any future reductions in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling, and disposal of Table of Contents requirements could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. that may arise out of our failure to adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Health Information and Privacy Practices designed to protect the privacy of and provide for the security of protected health information, as defined under the HIPAA regulations. Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and or access protected health information and are subject to the HIPAA regulations. Our operations, depending on their location, may also be subject to state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are provided. Significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of HIPAA standards and other such laws. We have a HIPAA compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the HIPAA regulations. governing protected health information. Among other things, the HITECH Act expanded certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy and security rules, imposed new notification requirements related to health data security breaches, broadened the rights of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") to enforce HIPAA, and directed HHS to publish more specific security standards. In January 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of HHS published the HIPAA omnibus final rule ("HIPAA Final Rule"), which amended certain aspects of the HIPAA privacy, security, and enforcement rules pursuant to the HITECH Act, extending certain HIPAA obligations to business associates and their subcontractors. Certain components of our business act as "business associates" within the meaning of HIPAA and are subject to these additional obligations under the HIPAA Final Rule. state laws protecting such information, in addition to the requirements of HIPAA, the HITECH Act, and the implementing regulations. Personally identifiable information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate. As such regulations continue to evolve, we must comply with applicable privacy and security requirements of these countries, including but not limited to those in the European Union. Most notably certain aspects of our business are subject to the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") which became effective on May 25, 2018, the California Consumer Protection Act ("CCPA"), which became effective on January 1, 2020, and Brazil's new General Data Protection Law (Lei Geral de Prote o de Dados Pessoais) Law No. 13,709 208 ("LGPD") which became effective in August 2020. We have implemented a privacy and information security compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the applicable privacy laws and regulations. There can be no assurances that compliance with these requirements will not impose new costs on our business. Available Information electronic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including all Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through our website at investor.amerisourcebergen.com immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission and may also be viewed using their website at www.sec.gov. The costs, burdens, and or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal See "Risk Factors" beginning on page 8 for a discussion of additional legal and regulatory developments, as well as enforcement actions or other litigation The Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") and its implementing regulations set forth privacy and security standards The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act ("HITECH Act") strengthened federal privacy and security provisions Some of our businesses collect, maintain, and or access other personal information (including sensitive personal information) that is subject to federal and For more information about us, visit our website at www.amerisourcebergen.com. The contents of the website are not part of this Form 10-K. Our Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS set forth elsewhere in this report. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material. The reader should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. Industry and Economic Risks Our results of operations could be adversely impacted by manufacturer pricing changes. Distribution Services reportable segment profit and our consolidated operating earnings. We expect these trends to continue in fiscal 2021, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers for the purchase of brand pharmaceutical products generally use wholesale acquisition cost ("WAC") as the reference price. We sell brand pharmaceutical products to many of our customers using WAC as the reference price and to other customers based on their negotiated contract price. If manufacturers change their pricing policies or practices with regard to WAC or if prices charged by manufacturers do not align with prices negotiated to be paid by our customers, and we are unable to negotiate alternative ways to be compensated by manufacturers or customers for the value of our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, there are a number of government policy initiatives being considered which, if enacted, could directly or indirectly regulate or impact WAC prices. If such initiatives are passed or finalized and we are unable to negotiate equitable changes with our suppliers and or customers, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. we have entered into with brand and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have a price appreciation component to them. As a result, our gross profit from brand- name and generic pharmaceuticals continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of manufacturer price increases, which we do not control. If the frequency or rate of brand and generic pharmaceutical price increases slows, whether due to regulatory mandates, the implementation of legislative proposals, policy initiatives or voluntary manufacturer actions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, generic pharmaceuticals are also subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the negative impact on our results of operations will be greater. Competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit. recent years the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation, including among pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies, and health insurers, which may create further competitive pressures on our pharmaceutical distribution business. If we do not compete successfully, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The impact on us will be greater if consolidation among our customers, suppliers, and competitors gives the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which could lead to greater pressure on us to reduce prices for our products and services. Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a significant customer. assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The COVID-19 pandemic has increased volatility of the capital and credit markets and has led to a general worsening of economic conditions, which has put financial pressure on many of our customers and may threaten certain customers ability to maintain liquidity sufficient to repay their obligations to us as they become due. The bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue and results of operations. As of September 30, 2020, our two largest trade receivable balances due from customers represented approximately 47% and 7% of accounts receivable, net. The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. These risk factors are in addition to those In fiscal 2020, we continued to experience unfavorable brand and generic pharmaceutical pricing trends, which negatively impacted our Pharmaceutical The pharmaceutical products that we purchase are also subject to price inflation and deflation. Additionally, certain distribution service agreements that As described in greater detail in the "Competition" section beginning on page 5, the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. In addition, in Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. Credit is made available to customers based upon our Table of Contents Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a significant supplier. returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, pending litigation, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial market volatility and disruption or a downgrade in our credit ratings. downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit. Although we believe that our operating cash flow and existing credit arrangements give us the ability to meet our financing needs, there can be no assurance that disruption and volatility will not increase our costs of borrowing, impair our liquidity, or adversely impact our business. required to meet certain financial performance ratios. Liabilities related to litigation or any significant related settlements, an increase in our debt or a decline in our earnings could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, could limit our access to public debt markets, limit the institutions willing to provide credit to us, result in more restrictive financial and other covenants in our public and private debt, and would likely increase our overall borrowing costs and adversely affect our earnings. Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, could reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Negative trends in the general economy, including interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility, or credit market disruptions, may also affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms and reduce discretionary spending on health products. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States or in the countries where we do business deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Business and Operational Risks Our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss, or renewal at less favorable terms, of a significant customer or group purchasing organization. our revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. Our top ten customers, including governmental agencies and GPOs, represented approximately 64% of revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, from time to time, significant contracts may be renewed or modified prior to their expiration date in furtherance of our strategic objectives. If those contracts are renewed or modified at less favorable terms, they may also negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. The anticipated ongoing strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with WBA may not be realized. Walgreens pharmacies and our generics purchasing services arrangement under which Our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for If the capital and credit markets experience significant disruption and volatility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience Additionally, rating agencies continually review the ratings they have assigned to us and our outstanding debt securities. To maintain our ratings, we are Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other countries where we do business. Deterioration in general WBA accounted for approximately 33% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. Express Scripts accounted for approximately 12% of In May 2016, we extended to 2026 our strategic arrangement with WBA - specifically, our distribution agreement under which we distribute drugs to Table of Contents Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH ("WBAD") provides a variety of services, including negotiating acquisition pricing with generic manufacturers on our behalf. This reflected our expectation that partnering strategically with WBA would result in various benefits including, among other things, continued cost savings as a result of our generics purchasing services arrangement with WBAD, as well as the potential for exploring innovation together and sharing best practices. The processes and initiatives needed to achieve and maintain these benefits are complex, costly, and time-consuming. Achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement on an ongoing basis is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including: the potential inability to realize and or delays in realizing potential benefits resulting from participation in our generics purchasing services arrangement with WBAD, including improved generic drug pricing and terms, improved service fees from generic manufacturers, cost savings, innovations, or other benefits due to its inability to negotiate successfully with generic manufacturers or otherwise to perform as expected the potential disruption of our plans and operations as a result of the terms under which we extended the duration of the distribution agreement and generics purchasing services agreement, including any disruption of our cash flow and ability to return value to our stockholders in accordance with our past practices and any reduction in our operational, strategic or financial flexibility potential changes in supplier relationships and terms unexpected or unforeseen costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by us related to the transaction or the overall strategic relationship changes in the economic terms under which we distribute pharmaceuticals to WBA, including changes necessitated by changing market conditions or other unforeseen developments that may arise during the term of the distribution agreement, to the extent that any such changes are not offset by other financial benefits that we are able to obtain through collaboration in other aspects of our strategic relationship with WBA and any potential issues that could impede our ability to continue to work collaboratively with WBA in an efficient and effective manner in furtherance of the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of the relationship. 18, 2013 to make certain additional investments in our common stock. WBA also has the right to sell any of the shares of our common stock that it has acquired so long as WBA has held the shares beyond the requisite dates specified in the Shareholder Agreement. Any sales in the public market of common stock currently held by WBA or acquired by WBA pursuant to open market purchases could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances, or issues with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate pursuing with WBA. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased benefits and the diversion of management time and attention. If we are unable to achieve any of our objectives, the expected future benefits may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A disruption in our distribution or generic purchasing services arrangements with WBA could adversely affect our business and financial results. we may have an obligation to pay or credit WBA for failure to supply products. In addition, upon the expiration or termination of the distribution agreement or generics purchasing services arrangement, there can be no assurance that we or WBA will be willing to renew, on terms favorable to us or at all. seriously disrupted for any reason, whether by the global coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic, natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory or governmental action, or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and our sales and profitability. Moreover, if the economic benefits we are able to obtain through the generics purchasing services arrangement with WBA decline due to changes in market conditions or other changes impacting the fees and rebates that generic manufacturers make available through the arrangement, our margins and results of operations could also be adversely affected. disruptions of certain of its existing distribution facilities or retail pharmacies resulting from ongoing inspections by the DEA and or state regulatory agencies and possible revocation of the controlled substance registrations for those facilities and pharmacies. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of or investments in businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate. assessment, discussion, and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions or investments, not all of which will be consummated. We make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. In addition, WBA has the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the Framework and Shareholder Agreements dated March We are the primary distributor of pharmaceutical products for WBA. If our operations are seriously disrupted for any reason deemed within our control, Our generic pharmaceutical program has also benefited from the generics purchasing services arrangement with WBA. If the operations of WBA are In addition, our business may be adversely affected by any operational, financial, or regulatory difficulties that WBA experiences, including any As part of our strategy we seek to pursue acquisitions of and investments in other companies. At any particular time, we may be in various stages of Table of Contents or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: regulatory or compliance issues that could arise changes in regulations and laws the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term the assumption of unknown liabilities, including litigation risks the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed not being properly estimated the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to manage and complete divestitures. We regularly evaluate our portfolio in order to determine whether an asset or business may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. The impact of a divestiture on our results of operations could also be greater than anticipated. Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by our global operations. 50 countries. We may conduct business in additional foreign jurisdictions in the future, which may carry operational risks in addition to the risks of acquisition described above. At any particular time, our global operations may be affected by local changes in laws, regulations, and the political and economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility, and competition. Changes or uncertainty in U.S. or foreign policy, including any changes or uncertainty with respect to U.S. or international trade policies or tariffs, also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location and may require us to spend more money to source certain products or materials that we purchase. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. We are subject to operational and logistical risks that might not be covered by insurance. distribution of pharmaceuticals and the provision of related services, including with respect to cold chain storage and shipping. We anticipate that the volume of cold chain storage and shipping may increase due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as we assist with the strategic national stockpile as well as possible distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. Although we seek to maintain adequate insurance coverage, coverage on acceptable terms might be unavailable, or coverage might not cover our losses or may require large deductibles. Uninsured losses or operational losses that result in large deductible payments in order to receive insurance coverage might have an adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Litigation and Regulatory Risks Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy, departments of health, and the FDA, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system. Regulation of pharmaceutical distribution is intended to prevent diversion and the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated, and or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system. Consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety and security of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution. pedigree requirements, and will require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system by November 2023. The DQSA, and in particular Title II of the DQSA, the Drug Supply Chain Security Act ("DSCSA") also established requirements for drug wholesale distributors and Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties and may be of businesses in which we lack operational or market experience. If we complete one Our operations in jurisdictions outside of the United States are subject to various risks inherent in global operations. We currently have operations in over We have distribution centers and facilities located in the United States and throughout the world. Our business exposes us to risks that are inherent in the The healthcare industry in the United States is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. There have been increasing efforts by Congress and state At the federal level, the DQSA establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the bottle level, preempts state drug Table of Contents third-party logistics providers, including licensing requirements applicable in states that had not previously licensed third-party logistics providers. regulatory and licensing requirements, and any failure to comply may result in suspension or delay of certain operations and additional costs to bring our facilities into compliance. Our international operations may also be subject to local regulations containing record-keeping and other obligations related to our distribution operations in those locations. Pedigree tracking laws increase our compliance burden and our pharmaceutical distribution costs and could have an adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. state and local jurisdictions, are focused on the abuse of opioid medications in the United States. In addition to conducting investigations and participating in litigation related to the misuse of prescription opioid medications, federal, state and local governmental and regulatory agencies are considering legislation and regulatory measures to limit opioid prescriptions and more closely monitor product distribution, prescribing, and dispensing of these drugs. including follow-on actions related to current public concern over the abuse of opioid medications, could result in suspension or delays in our production and distribution activities which may increase our costs and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Legal, regulatory, and legislative changes with respect to reimbursement, pricing, and contracting may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including through declining reimbursement rates. and or medical treatments or services, changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined, or regulating pricing, contracting, and discounting practices with respect to medical products and services. Additionally, on occasion, price increases and pricing practices with respect to certain brand and generic pharmaceuticals have been the subject of U.S. Congressional inquiries, federal and state investigations and private litigation. Any law or regulation impacting pharmaceutical pricing or reimbursement, such as pricing controls or indexing models at the federal or state level, could adversely affect our operations. reforms broadening healthcare access and affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, pricing, and contracting for prescription drugs, including changes to the Medicaid rebate statute. Given the scope of the changes made by the ACA and continuing implementation controversies, we cannot predict the impact of every aspect of the law on our operations. Likewise, we cannot predict the impact of any efforts to change or repeal any provisions of the ACA may have on the ACA or other healthcare legislation and regulation. Medicaid rebate due with respect to line extensions of single source or innovator multiple source oral solid dosage form drugs. The federal government and state governments could take other actions in the future that impact Medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts or the cost of drugs. Any reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for multiple source pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. There can be no assurance that recent or future changes in Medicaid prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our business. Unless we are able to successfully advocate to prevent or mitigate the impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. Part B of the Medicare program. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") published a final rule in November 2017 that reduces Medicare outpatient hospital reimbursement for separately payable drugs (other than vaccines) purchased through the 340B drug discount program from average sales price ("ASP") plus 6% to ASP minus 22.5% (with certain exceptions), effective January 2018. In July 2020, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed the district court s decision, which would allow the payment reductions to take effect. While the appeals process is still underway, CMS solicited comments in the proposed calendar year 2020 Medicare outpatient prospective payment system rule on appropriate payment for such 340B-acquired drugs, and finalized a rule in November 2019 that would impose the same ASP minus 22.5% rate that was the subject of the litigation described above. Separately, November 2018, CMS published a final rule that reduces from 6% to 3% the add-on payment for new, separately-payable Part B drugs and There can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the DQSA requirements, including the DSCSA requirements, or with additional related state As discussed in the risk factor below about public concern over the abuse of opioid medications, certain governmental and regulatory agencies, as well as Complying with the DQSA requirements, including the DSCSA requirements, and other chain of custody and pharmaceutical distribution requirements, Both our business and our customers' businesses may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals Federal insurance and healthcare reform legislation known as the Affordable Care Act ("ACA") became law in March 2010, and included numerous Subsequent legislation has made additional changes to federal drug payment policies, including the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which increased the Our businesses also sell specialty and other drugs to physicians, hospitals, community oncology practices and other providers that are reimbursed under Table of Contents biologicals that are paid based on WAC when ASP data during first quarter or sales is unavailable. There can be no assurance that recent or future rules established by CMS will not have an adverse impact on our business. distribution system may change their interpretation or approach to implementing or complying with those standards, in a manner that may adversely affect our business. For example, the 340B drug discount program requires manufacturers to provide discounts on outpatient drugs to covered entity safety net providers, and previous Health Resources and Services Administration ( HRSA ) guidance has allowed covered entities to dispense 340B discounted drugs through arrangements with multiple contract pharmacies. Recently, several manufacturers have announced initiatives that may inhibit or limit covered entities ability to use any, or multiple, contract pharmacies, and may direct us not to honor 340B discounted pricing requests on orders to be shipped to contract pharmacies (or may not honor chargebacks where such discounts are extended to contract pharmacies). HRSA has initially indicated that it lacks regulatory authority to enforce its prior guidance allowing multiple contract pharmacies, but recently advised that it is considering whether it may have other enforcement remedies in the event that manufacturers do not extend 340B discounts through contract pharmacy arrangements. Our customers include covered entities and organizations with significant participation as contract pharmacies, and the unavailability of 340B discounts through contract pharmacy arrangements may adversely affect such customers and, therefore, could adversely affect our business. requirements on healthcare entities. Notably, the Trump Administration and members of Congress proposed numerous amendments to Part B drug distribution and payment models during 2018. The Trump Administration has also sought to implement demonstration projects that may affect drug payments. Some of these proposals could have significant effects on our business, including an Executive Order issued on September 13, 2020 to test a "Most Favored Nations" model for Part B and Part D drugs that tie reimbursement rates to international drug pricing metrics. Any future reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates or modifications to Medicare drug pricing regulations such as ASP calculations could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us, or could indirectly affect the structure of our relationships with manufacturers and our customers. At this time, we can provide no assurances that future Medicare and or Medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not have a material adverse effect on our business. as Medicare and Medicaid, which may adversely affect our business. For example, several states have adopted laws that require drug manufacturers to provide advance notice of certain price increases and to report information relating to those price increases, while others have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription drug affordability boards or multi-payer purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs. On July 31, 2019, the Department of Health and Human Services announced a Safe Importation Action Plan that outlines two potential pathways to allow importation of certain drugs from foreign markets. On July 24, 2020, the Trump Administration issued an Executive Order on Increasing Drug Importation to Lower Prices for American Patients calling for the federal government to exercise its authority under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to permit drug imports from Canada, re-importation of certain insulin products, and case-by-case waivers to certain importers provided such importation poses no risk to public safety and results in lower costs. There can be no assurances that future changes to drug reimbursement policies, drug pricing and contracting practices outside of federal healthcare programs, or to government drug price regulation programs such as the Medicaid rebate, ASP, or 340B program will not have an adverse impact on our business. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. continues to strengthen its scrutiny of practices potentially involving healthcare fraud affecting Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these enforcement authorities were further expanded by the ACA. Many states have enacted similar statutes which are not necessarily limited to items and services for which payment is made by federal healthcare programs. While we believe that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government Further, even where the government does not affirmatively change drug price regulation standards, other parties in the drug manufacturing and The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare and or Medicaid spending or impose additional Finally, federal and state governments may adopt policies affecting drug pricing and contracting practices outside of the context of federal programs such Table of Contents relating to certain incentives offered in connection with sales of pharmaceutical products and related services, are vague or indefinite, and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. Public concern over the abuse of opioid medications, including increased legal and regulatory action, could negatively affect our business. Certain governmental and regulatory agencies, as well as state and local jurisdictions, are focused on the abuse of opioid medications in the United States. Federal, state and local governmental and regulatory agencies are conducting investigations of us and others in the supply chain, including pharmaceutical manufacturers and other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, regarding the distribution of opioid medications. In addition, a significant number of lawsuits have been filed against us, other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, and others in the supply chain by state and local governmental entities and other plaintiffs for claims related to the Company s distribution of opioid medications. The lawsuits against us and other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors allege, among other claims, that we failed to provide effective controls and procedures to guard against the diversion of controlled substances, acted negligently by distributing controlled substances to pharmacies that serve individuals who abuse controlled substances, and failed to report suspicious orders of controlled substances in accordance with regulations. Additional governmental and regulatory entities have indicated an intent to sue and may conduct investigations of us in the future and lawsuits could be brought against the Company by other plaintiffs under other theories related to opioid abuse. We are deeply committed to diversion control efforts, have sophisticated systems in place to identify orders placed warranting further review to determine if they are suspicious (including through the use of data analytics), and engage in significant due diligence and ongoing monitoring of customers. While we are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits, the allegations may negatively affect our business in various ways, including through increased costs and harm to our reputation. We are currently engaged in advanced discussions, which are ongoing, with the objective of reaching potential terms (which would include monetary payments and certain changes to our anti-diversion programs) for a global resolution of the multi-district opioid litigation involving certain state and local governmental entities and other related state court litigation described in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. While a global settlement with respect to certain governmental entities within the Multidistrict Litigation ("MDL") and other related state court litigation remains subject to contingencies that could impact whether the parties ultimately decide to move forward, we believe a global settlement is probable and its liability related thereto can be reasonably estimated as of September 30, 2020. We have recorded a charge of 6.6 billion in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 related to the global settlement and other related opioid litigation. Until such time as a plaintiff participates in a global settlement or otherwise resolves its lawsuit, we will continue to litigate and prepare for trial in the cases pending in the multi-district opioid litigation, those remanded from the multi-district opioid litigation to federal district courts, as well as in state courts where lawsuits have been filed, and we intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in all such cases. Since these matters are still developing, we are unable to predict the outcome, but the result of these lawsuits could include excessive monetary verdicts and or injunctive relief, including changes to our anti-diversion programs, that may affect how we operate our business. Further, any final settlement amongst parties may differ materially from our advanced discussions related to global resolution of the multi-district opioid litigation. The inability to reach a global settlement of the multi-district opioid litigation and adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits or investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows and could result in a lower than historical level of capital available for deployment, including a lower level of capital returned to stockholders. Legislative, regulatory or industry measures to address the misuse of prescription opioid medications may also affect our business in ways that we are not be able to predict. For example, New York has instituted an opioid excise tax, which went into effect on July 1, 2019 and replaces a prior assessment under New York's Opioid Stewardship Act, and taxes entities that make the initial sale or distribution of opioid medications into the state. In addition, Rhode Island and Delaware have enacted opioid taxes, Minnesota has enacted increased licensure fees, and other states are considering legislation that could require entities to pay an assessment or tax on the sale or distribution of opioid medications in those states. If additional state or local jurisdictions enact legislation that taxes or assesses the sale or distribution of opioid medications and we are not able to mitigate the impact on our business through operational changes or commercial arrangements where permitted, such legislation in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Our business, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected by legal proceedings. provision of services to the pharmaceutical industry. Each of our businesses may cause us to become involved in legal disputes or proceedings. These disputes or proceedings have involved or may involve We conduct our operations through a variety of businesses, including the distribution of pharmaceuticals, the dispensing of healthcare products, and the Table of Contents healthcare fraud and abuse, the False Claims Act, antitrust, class action, commercial, employment, environmental, intellectual property, licensing, public disclosures and various other claims, including claims related to opioid medications as discussed in the above risk factor. Litigation is costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to ordinary business operations. The defense and resolution of these current and future proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Violations of various federal and state laws, including with respect to the marketing, sale, purchase, and dispensing of pharmaceutical products and the provision of services to the pharmaceutical industry, can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health programs. Any settlement, judgment or fine could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Claims Acts authorize a private person, known as a relator, to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. Under False Claims Acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes obligations on government authorities to investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. Such cases may involve allegations around the marketing, sale, purchase, and or dispensing of brand and or generic pharmaceutical products or the provision of services to the pharmaceutical industry. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false claims, if the litigation proceeds whether or not government authorities decide to intervene in any such matters, and or if we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters. In fiscal 2018, we resolved potential civil claims and administrative action by entering into, among other things, a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services). The Corporate Integrity Agreement has a five-year term. Failure to comply with obligations under the Corporate Integrity Agreement could lead to monetary or other penalties. Tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. federal, state and local governments, and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives, such as changes to the federal corporate tax rate, the repeal of last-in, first-out ("LIFO") treatment or the promulgation of state opioid taxes and fees, may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and or our tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. We believe that our historical tax positions are consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and existing precedent. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Due to the potential for changes to tax laws and regulations or changes to the interpretation thereof (including regulations and interpretations pertaining to the 2017 Tax Act), the ambiguity of tax laws and regulations, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our business and intercompany arrangements, uncertainties regarding the geographic mix of earnings in any particular period, and other factors, material adjustments to our tax estimates may impact our provision for income taxes and our earnings per share, as well as our cash flows, in the period in which any such adjustments would be made. Further, we cannot predict the impact of any efforts to change or repeal the 2017 Tax Act or enact alternative legislation by the incoming presidential administration or the next Congress. Violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and or international trade laws to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), U.S. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. The FCPA generally prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The FCPA also requires that U.S. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. If we are found to have violated the FCPA, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export licenses. From time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or We are a large corporation with operations in the United States and select global markets. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the U.S. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "2017 Tax Act") was enacted and contains significant changes to U.S. income tax law. We are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. For example, we are Statutory and or regulatory violations could also form the basis for qui tam complaints. The qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil False Table of Contents more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. Risks generally associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data. collection, use, security, processing, and transfer of personal data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries. Many of these regulations also grant rights to individuals. Many foreign data privacy regulations (including GDPR in the European Union, Brazil's new General Data Protection Law, LGPD, and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act in Canada) and certain state laws and regulations (including California's CCPA) impose requirements beyond those enacted under United States federal law including, in some instances, private rights of action. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties. That or other circumstances related to our collection, use, and transfer of personal data could cause a loss of reputation in the market and or adversely affect our business and financial position. Other Risks We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and the continued spread of COVID-19 is adversely affecting our business. customers and suppliers. The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our operations, supply chains and distribution network, and we have experienced and expect to continue to experience unpredictable reductions in supply and demand for certain of our products and services. Further, it is possible that the manufacturers that produce the products that we distribute may experience delays or shutdowns due to COVID-19, such as from disruptions in their supply chains or in a suspension of production at their own facilities. Accordingly, we expect the continued spread of COVID-19 to adversely affect the supply of products and or potentially disrupt our ability to deliver products to customers. Any extended disruption in our ability to service our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. resulted in our decision to temporarily close, and subsequently reopen, a small number of our distribution centers in accordance with our internal protocols. We have implemented measures designed to keep our employees safe and have protocols in place to address business continuity issues at our distribution centers and other locations, but a widespread or sustained outbreak of COVID-19 at one or more locations could disrupt our ability to service our customers. instance, demand for certain animal health products in our MWI business declined during the COVID-19 pandemic, and this reduced demand may continue as customers reduce or postpone purchases viewed as discretionary. We also face risks related to a downturn in our customers' respective businesses, including the operations of our retail pharmacy and health systems customers. An economic slowdown or recession related to COVID-19 may affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their business on acceptable terms, which could result in reduced spending on our products and services. enhancing and upgrading our information technology systems, may take longer than originally expected to complete as we focus on COVID-19-related issues. Additionally, a large portion of our employees are working remotely. An extended period of remote work arrangements could strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks, and impair our ability to manage our business. revenue, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For example, the continued spread of COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which could increase our cost of capital and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. A sustained or prolonged outbreak could exacerbate the adverse impact of such events, and the impact of COVID-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed in Item 1A to our Form 10-K, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations both in the United States and beyond that regulate the We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, including risks related to any responses thereto by the federal or state governments as well as We also face risks related to our employees' health and the impact it may have on operations. Certain of our employees have contracted COVID-19 which Since April 2020, COVID-19 has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. For Certain enterprise-wide initiatives intended to improve our operational efficiency and financial performance, such as technology initiatives related to The impacts of the continued spread of COVID-19 could also cause other unpredictable events, each of which could adversely affect our business, Table of Contents Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations. thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis to account for other product and service transactions with customers to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers and to process payments to suppliers. We continue to make substantial investments in data centers and information systems, including, but not limited to, the expanded implementation of our primary ERP system to integrate certain of our key business areas. Third-party service providers are also responsible for managing a portion of our information systems. To the extent our information systems are not successfully implemented or fail, or to the extent there are data center interruptions, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business and results of operations may also be adversely affected if a third-party service provider does not perform satisfactorily, or if the information systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events, including due to the actions of third parties. technologies, and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. A failure, interruption, or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information or personal data, damage our reputation, cause loss of customers or revenue, increase our costs, result in litigation and or regulatory action, and or cause other losses, any of which might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures, controls and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. adversely affecting our business, a large portion of our employees are working remotely. An extended period of remote work arrangements could strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks, and impair our ability to manage our business. Our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets may become impaired, which may require us to record a further significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. Indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant negative industry or economic trends, or a significant decline in our stock price and or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. In addition, we periodically review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of a significant customer, or divestiture of a business or asset for below its carrying value. The testing required by GAAP involves estimates and judgments by management. goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets is determined. Any such charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be covered by insurance. and other severe hazards or accidents in the United States or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Extreme weather, natural disasters, power outages, or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of distribution centers or outsourcing facilities, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products, delay in the delivery of products to our distribution centers, and or disruption of our ability to deliver products to customers. Current or future insurance arrangements may not provide protection for costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. Further, the long-term effects of climate change on general economic Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of cloud-based infrastructure and other services, new Additionally, as discussed above in the risk factor We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and the continued spread of COVID-19 is U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") require us to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our We face environmental risks and the occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, Table of Contents conditions and the pharmaceutical distribution industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand, or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. Any long-term disruption in our ability to service our customers from one or more distribution centers or outsourcing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES (including Puerto Rico) and select global markets. We lease facilities in Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania and in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania for our corporate headquarters. plus the following states: Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Indiana, Kentucky, Minnesota, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Utah, and Washington. Owned facilities are located in the following states: Alabama, California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Virginia. internationally in Canada. England. Most of the facilities are leased. Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington, and internationally in the United Kingdom. Significant owned facilities are located in Alabama, Idaho, Texas, and Virginia and internationally in the United Kingdom. Its headquarters are located in Idaho. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES As of September 30, 2020, we conducted our business from office and operating facilities at owned and leased locations throughout the United States Pharmaceutical Distribution Services has a robust distribution facility network in the United States. Significant leased facilities are located in Puerto Rico As of September 30, 2020, the Consulting Group's operations were conducted in leased locations. Its headquarters are located in South Carolina and As of September 30, 2020, World Courier's office and operating facilities are located in over 50 countries. Its headquarters are located in London, As of September 30, 2020, MWI's operations were conducted in the United States and in the United Kingdom. Leased facilities are located in California, We consider all of our operating and office properties to be in satisfactory condition. Legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in Note 14 (Legal Matters and Contingencies) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Not applicable. Table of Contents individuals during the last five years. July 2011, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer. He served as Executive Vice President and President of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation from September 2009 to November 2010. He was Executive Vice President and President of AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group from September 2007 to September 2009 and was Senior Vice President of the Company and President of AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group from August 2001 to September 2007. Mr. Collis has been employed by the Company or one of its predecessors for over 25 years. Ms. Battaglia has been Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since January 2019. Prior to joining the Company, she worked at Aramark as Senior Vice President of Global Compensation, Benefits, and Labor Relations from August 2017 to December 2018 and as Senior Vice President, Global Field Human Resources from May 2011 to August 2017. She also previously worked for Day & Zimmerman and Merck Corporation. Business Officer of the Company from May 2017 to September 2019. He served as General Counsel of the Company from January 2007 to June 2017. From January 2007 to August 2011, Mr. Chou was a Senior Vice President. He served as Secretary of the Company from February 2006 to May 2012 and from September 2019 to May 2020. He was Vice President and Deputy General Counsel from November 2004 to January 2007 and Associate General Counsel from July 2002 to November 2004. Mr. Chou has been employed by the Company for 18 years. served as Chief Marketing Officer from November 2014 to June 2017. Ms. Clark was named Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in June 2011. She previously served as Senior Vice President of Marketing and Business Development for AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group from January 2007 to June 2011. Prior to joining the Company, she worked in executive leadership roles at Premier Inc. and HealthSouth, including Senior Vice President of Marketing and Alliance Relations, Group Vice President of Relationship Management, and Senior Vice President of Managed Care and National Contracting. Global Commercialization Services & Animal Health from June 2017 to November 2018. He previously served as President, MWI Animal Health from March 2015 to June 2017. Prior to joining the Company, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc. from June 2002. Ms. Donato has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer since July 2019. Prior to joining the Company, she held various leadership roles at Bayer from May 2009 to May 2019, including Vice President of Strategy, Pharmaceuticals Division, Vice President of Strategy, Bayer Healthcare US, and Vice President & General Manager of Neurology & Hematology. She also worked for McKinsey & Company where she was a Partner in the Healthcare Practice. Pharmaceutical Distribution & Strategic Global Sourcing from June 2017 to February 2019. He served as President, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation from February 2015 to June 2017. Mr. Mauch previously served as Senior Vice President Chief Operating Officer, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation from March 2014 to February 2015. He was Senior Vice President, Operations, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation from April 2012 to March 2014. He was Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation from April 2011 to April 2012. He was Senior Name Age Current Position with the Company Steven H. Collis 59 Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer Silvana Battaglia 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer John G. Chou 64 Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer Gina K. Clark 63 Executive Vice President and Chief Communications & Administration Officer James F. Cleary 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leslie E. Donato 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer Robert P. Mauch 53 Executive Vice President and Group President The following is a list of our executive officers and their ages and positions as of November 15, 2020. Unless indicated to the contrary, the business experience summaries provided below for our executive officers describe positions held by the named Mr. Collis has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2011 and Chairman since March 2016. From November 2010 to Mr. Chou has been Executive Vice President since August 2011 and became the Chief Legal Officer in September 2019. He served as Chief Legal & Ms. Clark has been Executive Vice President since November 2014 and became Chief Communication & Administration Officer in June 2017. She Mr. Cleary has been Executive Vice President since March 2015 and became Chief Financial Officer in November 2018. He served as Group President, Mr. Mauch has been Executive Vice President since February 2015 and became Group President in February 2019. He served as Group President, INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Table of Contents Vice President, Alternate Care Sales and Marketing, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation from May 2010 to April 2011. Mr. Mauch has been employed by the Company or one of its predecessors for over 25 years. Table of Contents ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY record holders of the Company's common stock. the Company's board of directors increased the quarterly dividend by 5% from 0.40 per share to 0.42 per share. In November 2020, the Company's board of directors increased the quarterly dividend by 5% from 0.42 per share to 0.44 per share. The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Company's board of directors and will depend upon the Company's future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, and other factors. P.O. Box 50500, Louisville, KY 40233-500 (telephone): Domestic 1-800-522-6645, International 1-201-680-6578, and (internet) www.computershare.com investor. The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol "ABC." As of October 31, 2020, there were 2,385 In November 2018, the Company's board of directors increased the quarterly dividend by 5% from 0.38 per share to 0.40 per share. In January 2020, Computershare is the Company's transfer agent. Computershare can be reached at (mail) AmerisourceBergen Corporation c o Computershare, SECURITIES Table of Contents announced programs, and the approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the programs during each month in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. (a) In October 2018, the Company's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program allowing the Company to purchase up to 1.0 billion of its (b) In May 2020, the Company's board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program allowing the Company to purchase up to 500 million of its (c) Employees surrendered 114,032 shares during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 to meet minimum tax-withholding obligations upon vesting of outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, the Company purchased 4.9 million shares of its common stock for a total of 405.6 million, which excluded 14.8 million of September 2019 purchases that cash settled in October 2019. As of September 30, 2020, the Company had 55.5 million of availability under this program. outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. restricted stock. The following sets forth the total number of shares purchased, the average price paid per share, the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly October 1 to October 31 928,528 81.89 928,528 385,099,144 November 1 to November 30 383,920 84.57 272,014 362,228,055 December 1 to December 31 367,012 84.04 367,012 331,384,669 January 1 to January 31 193,502 84.48 193,502 315,037,604 February 1 to February 29 352,025 82.84 352,025 285,874,551 March 1 to March 31 2,643,138 82.12 2,643,138 68,813,634 April 1 to April 30 68,813,634 May 1 to May 31 159,247 83.49 159,247 555,518,116 June 1 to June 30 784 95.15 555,518,116 July 1 to July 31 555,518,116 August 1 to August 31 555,518,116 September 1 to September 30 1,342 94.30 555,518,116 Total 5,029,498 82.60 4,915,466 ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Total Number of Shares Purchased Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Programs Table of Contents Stock Index, the S&P Health Care Index, and an index of peer companies selected by the Company from the market close on September 30, 2015 to September 30, 2020. The graph assumes 100 invested at the closing price of the common stock of the Company and of each of the other indices on the New York Stock Exchange on September 30, 2015. The points on the graph represent fiscal year-end index levels based upon the last trading day in each fiscal quarter. The Peer Group index (which is weighted on the basis of market capitalization) consists of the following companies engaged primarily in wholesale pharmaceutical distribution and related services: McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. 100 invested on September 30, 2015 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. This graph depicts the Company's five year cumulative total stockholder returns relative to the performance of the Standard and Poor's 500 Composite STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 26. (a) Includes a 5,528.4 million legal accrual for litigation relating the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications, net of income tax benefit of 1,078.6 (b) Includes a 421.3 million impairment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets, net of income tax benefit of 148.7 million 245.8 million of employee severance, (c) Includes 61.3 million of employee severance, litigation, and other costs, net of income tax benefit of 122.2 million a 59.7 million goodwill impairment As of or for the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (Amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 2020(a) 2019(b) 2018(c) 2017(d) 2016(e) Statement of Operations Data: Revenue 189,893,926 179,589,121 167,939,635 153,143,826 146,849,686 Gross profit 5,191,884 5,138,312 4,612,317 4,546,002 4,272,606 Operating expenses 10,327,238 4,026,389 3,168,632 3,485,660 2,746,832 Operating (loss) income (5,135,354) 1,111,923 1,443,685 1,060,342 1,525,774 Interest expense, net 137,883 157,769 174,699 145,185 139,912 Net (loss) income (3,399,558) 854,135 1,615,892 364,484 1,427,929 Net (loss) income attributable to AmerisourceBergen Corporation (3,408,716) 855,365 1,658,405 364,484 1,427,929 Earnings per share diluted (16.65) 4.04 7.53 1.64 6.32 Cash dividends declared per common share 1.66 1.60 1.52 1.46 1.36 Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 204,783 211,840 220,336 221,602 225,959 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents 4,597,746 3,374,194 2,492,516 2,435,115 2,741,832 Accounts receivable, net 13,846,301 12,386,879 11,314,226 10,303,324 9,175,876 Inventories 12,589,278 11,060,254 11,918,508 11,461,428 10,723,920 Property and equipment, net 1,484,808 1,770,516 1,892,424 1,797,945 1,530,682 Total assets 44,274,830 39,171,980 37,669,838 35,316,470 33,637,501 Accounts payable 31,705,055 28,385,074 26,836,873 25,404,042 23,926,320 Total debt 4,119,520 4,172,892 4,310,189 3,442,055 4,186,703 Total accrued litigation liability 6,606,925 Total (deficit) equity (839,636) 2,993,206 3,049,961 2,064,461 2,129,404 Total liabilities and stockholders' (deficit) equity 44,274,830 39,171,980 37,669,838 35,316,470 33,637,501  million 282.5 million impairment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets, net of income tax benefit of 79.2 million 156.5 million of employee severance, litigation, and other costs, net of income tax benefit of 43.9 million 46.4 million of PharMEDium exit and remediation costs, net of income tax benefit of 13.0 million a 17.3 million loss on early retirement of debt net of income tax benefit of 4.9 million an 11.6 million estimated assessment related to the New York State Opioid Stewardship Act, net of income tax benefit of 3.2 million a 9.5 million gain from an adjustment to Profarma's estimate of contingent consideration related to the purchase price of one of its prior business acquisitions, net of income tax expense of 2.7 million a 7.1 million gain from antitrust litigation settlements, net of income tax expense of 2.0 million and 5.8 million of LIFO expense, net of income tax benefit of 1.6 million. litigation, and other costs, net of income tax benefit of 84.6 million a 107.8 million gain from antitrust litigation settlements, net of income tax expense of 38.1 million 51.3 million of PharMEDium remediation costs, net of income tax benefit of 18.1 million a 16.7 million LIFO credit, net of income tax expense of 5.9 million a 16.3 million reversal of an estimated assessment related to the New York State Opioid Stewardship Act, net of income tax expense of 5.7 million and a 10.1 million gain on the sale of an equity investment, net of income tax expense of 3.6 million. with no income tax benefit 48.6 million of LIFO expense, net of income tax benefit of 18.7 million 47.8 million of PharMEDium remediation costs, net of income tax benefit of 18.4 million a 42.3 million loss on consolidation of equity investments with no income tax benefit a 30.0 million impairment on a non-customer note receivable with no income tax benefit a 25.9 million gain from antitrust litigation settlements, net of income tax expense of 10.0 million a 17.2 million loss on early retirement of debt, net of income tax benefit of 6.6 million and 15.9 million of expense for an estimated assessment related to the New York State Opioid Stewardship Act, net of income tax benefit of 6.1 million. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and Management's Discussion and Table of Contents (d) Includes a 101.1 million LIFO credit, net of income tax expense of 56.7 million a 0.9 million gain from antitrust litigation settlements, net of income tax (e) Includes 367.2 million of Warrants income, net of income tax benefit of 507.5 million 120.9 million of LIFO expense, net of income tax benefit of expense of 0.5 million and 937.4 million of employee severance, litigation, and other costs, net of income tax benefit of 21.9 million. 79.3 million an 80.8 million gain from antitrust litigation settlements, net of income tax expense of 53.0 million 62.1 million of employee severance, litigation, and other costs, net of income tax benefit of 40.8 million and a 28.7 million pension settlement charge, net of income tax benefit of 18.9 million. Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. We deliver innovative programs and services designed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply chain in both human and animal health. We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. Our operations are comprised of the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment and other operating segments that are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure and, therefore, have been included in Other for the purpose of our reportable segment presentation. pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. Through a number of operating businesses, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides pharmaceutical distribution (including plasma and other blood products, injectable pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty pharmaceutical products) and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. Additionally, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides data analytics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. Additionally, it delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. segments that focus on global commercialization services include AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services ("ABCS") and World Courier. diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. Additionally, MWI offers demand-creating sales force services to manufacturers. ABCS, through a number of operating businesses, provides a full suite of integrated manufacturer services that range from clinical trial support to product post-approval and commercialization support. World Courier, which operates in over 50 countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services Segment The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained herein. We are one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name and generic Other consists of operating segments that focus on global commercialization services and animal health (MWI Animal Health or "MWI"). The operating MWI is a leading animal health distribution company in the United States and in the United Kingdom. MWI sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, Table of Contents Executive Summary This executive summary provides highlights from the results of operations that follow: In March 2020, the World Health Organization ("WHO") declared a global pandemic attributable to the outbreak and continued spread of COVID- 19. In connection with the mitigation and containment procedures recommended by the WHO and imposed by federal, state, and local governmental authorities, we implemented measures designed to keep our employees safe and address business continuity issues at our distribution centers and other locations. We continue to evaluate and plan for the potential effects of a prolonged disruption and the related impacts on our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows (refer to our COVID-19 risk factor in Item 1A. Risk Factors on page 8) Revenue increased 5.7% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the revenue growth of our Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment Total gross profit increased 1.0% and was favorably impacted by increases in gross profit in Pharmaceutical Distribution Services and Other and was offset in part by lower gains from antitrust litigation settlements, last-in, first-out ("LIFO") expense in comparison to a LIFO credit in the prior fiscal year, and an estimated assessment related to the New York State Opioid Stewardship Act ("OSA") compared to a reversal of a previously-estimated assessment related to the OSA. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services' gross profit increased 3.8% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the strong increase in specialty product sales. Gross profit in Other increased 6.5% from the prior fiscal year due to growth at World Courier, MWI, and ABCS Distribution, selling, and administrative expenses increased 3.9% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in operating costs to support our revenue growth Employee severance, litigation, and other increased 6.5 billion due to a legal accrual for litigation relating the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. We are currently in advanced discussions, which are ongoing, with the states and various plaintiffs representatives that would be necessary to reach a global settlement of the Multidistrict Litigation ("MDL") and other related state-court litigation brought by certain state and local governmental entities to be paid over 18 years in which our payment would be 6.5 billion assuming all parties participate. A portion of this amount relating to plaintiff attorney fees would be payable over a shorter time period. While a global settlement remains subject to contingencies that could impact whether the parties ultimately decide to move forward, we believe a global settlement is probable and our loss related thereto can be reasonably estimated as of September 30, 2020 Operating income decreased in the current fiscal year primarily due to the 6.6 billion legal accrual in connection with opioid lawsuits, offset in part by an increase in segment operating income, a lower impairment charge relating to PharMEDium's assets, and a decline in depreciation and amortization Our effective tax rates were 35.8% and 11.7% in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate due to our operating loss, the tax benefits associated with our decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business, Swiss Tax Reform, the CARES Act, and other discrete items (see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and offset in part by the tax impact of the portion of the opioid legal accrual that is not expected to be tax deductible. Our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was primarily impacted by the 570.0 million impairment of PharMEDium's assets (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and legal settlements, which changed the mix of domestic and international income. The effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was also impacted by a 37.0 million decrease to the Company's transition tax related to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "2017 Tax Act"). Table of Contents Results of Operations Year ended September 30, 2020 compared to the Year ended September 30, 2019 various factors, such as industry growth trends, including drug utilization, the introduction of new, innovative brand therapies, the likely increase in the number of generic drugs and biosimilars that will be available over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain drug patents held by brand-name pharmaceutical manufacturers and the rate of conversion from brand products to those generic drugs and biosimilars, price inflation and price deflation, general economic conditions in the United States, competition within the industry, customer consolidation, changes in pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing and distribution policies and practices, increased downward pressure on government and other third-party reimbursement rates to our customers, changes in federal government rules and regulations, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (See Risk Factor - We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and the continued spread of COVID-19 is adversely affecting our business). growth of some of its largest customers, continued strong increased specialty pharmaceutical product sales (which generally have higher selling prices), and overall market growth principally driven by unit volume growth and, to a lesser extent, inflationary increases in brand drugs. significant customer if an existing contract with such customer expires without being extended, renewed, or replaced. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, no significant contracts expired. Over the next twelve months, there are no significant contracts scheduled to expire. Additionally, from time to time, significant contracts may be terminated in accordance with their terms or extended, renewed, or replaced prior to their expiration dates. If those contracts are extended, renewed, or replaced at less favorable terms, they may also negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Increased sales to Walgreens, our largest customer 2.8 Increased sales to specialty physician practices 2.8 Increased sales to other customers 4.1 (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 182,467,189 172,813,537 5.6% Total Other 7,525,102 6,868,341 9.6% Intersegment eliminations (98,365) (92,757) MWI Animal Health 4,216,462 3,975,232 6.1% Global Commercialization Services 3,308,640 2,893,109 14.4% Revenue 189,893,926 179,589,121 5.7% We currently expect our revenue growth percentage to be in the mid-single digits in fiscal 2021. Our future revenue growth will continue to be affected by Revenue increased by 5.7% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the revenue growth of our Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment grew its revenue by 5.6%, or 9.7 billion, from the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the organic More specifically, the increase in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment revenue was largely attributable to the following (in billions): Revenue in Other increased 9.6% from the prior fiscal year due to growth at all three operating segments: ABCS, MWI, and World Courier. A number of our contracts with customers, including group purchasing organizations, are typically subject to expiration each year. We may lose a Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents Gross Profit gross profit in Pharmaceutical Distribution Services and Other and lower PharMEDium remediation costs, and was offset in part by lower gains from antitrust litigation settlements, LIFO expense in comparison to a LIFO credit in the prior fiscal year, and an estimated assessment related to the New York State OSA compared to a reversal of a previously-estimated assessment related to the OSA (see below). product sales. As a percentage of revenue, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services gross profit margin of 2.10% in the current fiscal year decreased 3 basis points compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to increased sales to our larger customers, which typically have lower gross profit margins. revenue, gross profit margin in Other of 18.60% in the current fiscal year decreased from 19.13% in the prior fiscal year. ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The gains were recorded as reductions to cost of goods sold (see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our cost of goods sold includes a LIFO provision that is affected by manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences, changes in inventory quantities, and product mix, many of which are difficult to predict. Changes to any of the above factors may have a material impact to our annual LIFO provision. The LIFO expense in the current fiscal year was primarily driven by lower generic deflation, offset in part by a higher generic inventory mix in comparison to the prior fiscal year. We incurred remediation costs in connection with the suspended production activities at PharMEDium. We also incurred shutdown costs in connection with permanently exiting the PharMEDium compounding business. New York State ("NYS") enacted the OSA, which went into effect on July 1, 2018. The OSA established an annual 100 million Opioid Stewardship Fund (the "Fund") and required manufacturers, distributors, and importers licensed in NYS to ratably source the Fund. The ratable share of the assessment for each licensee was to be based upon opioids sold or distributed to or within NYS. In September 2018, we accrued 22.0 million as an estimate of our liability under the OSA for the period from January 1, 2017 through September 30, 2018. In December 2018, the OSA was ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, and, as a result, we reversed the 22.0 million accrual in the quarter ended December 31, 2018. In September 2020, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court s decision, and, as a result, we accrued 14.8 million in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 as we revised our estimated liability for the 2017 and 2018 calendar years. (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 3,824,129 3,682,986 3.8% Other 1,399,553 1,314,172 6.5% Intersegment eliminations (6,096) (659) Gain from antitrust litigation settlements 9,076 145,872 LIFO (expense) credit (7,422) 22,544 PharMEDium remediation costs (7,135) (48,603) PharMEDium shutdown costs (5,421) New York State Opioid Stewardship Act (14,800) 22,000 Gross profit 5,191,884 5,138,312 1.0% Gross profit increased 1.0%, or 53.6 million, from the prior fiscal year. Gross profit in the current fiscal year was favorably impacted by increases in Pharmaceutical Distribution Services gross profit increased 3.8%, or 141.1 million, from the prior fiscal year due to the strong increase in specialty Gross profit in Other increased 6.5%, or 85.4 million, from the prior fiscal year due to growth at World Courier, MWI, and ABCS. As a percentage of We recognized gains from antitrust litigation settlements with pharmaceutical manufacturers of 9.1 million and 145.9 million during the fiscal years Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents Operating Expenses primarily due to an increase in operating costs to support our revenue growth and costs incurred in connection with permanently exiting the PharMEDium compounding business, such as contract termination fees, offset in part by operational synergies realized from the integration of H.D. Smith within Pharmaceutical Distribution Services. As a percentage of revenue, distribution, selling, and administrative expenses were 1.46% in the current fiscal year, and represents a 2-basis point decrease compared to the prior fiscal year. integration of its operations. Amortization expense decreased 33.8% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the fiscal 2020 and 2019 impairments of PharMEDium intangible assets. Consolidated Financial Statements) and 115.4 million of litigation costs that related to legal fees in connection with opioid lawsuits and investigations, 34.4 million of severance costs primarily related to position eliminations resulting from our decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business, 38.0 million related to our business transformation efforts, and 12.6 million of acquisition-related deal and integration costs and other restructuring initiatives. PharMEDium restructuring activities, position eliminations resulting from our business transformation efforts and the integration of H.D. Smith, and restructuring activities related to our consulting business, 185.1 million of litigation costs that consisted of legal settlements totaling 116.7 million and legal fees in connection with opioid lawsuits and investigations, 55.4 million related to our business transformation efforts, 43.2 million of acquisition-related deal and integration costs (primarily related to the integration of H.D. Smith), and 12.6 million of other restructuring initiatives. We recorded a 361.7 million impairment of PharMEDium's assets in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 and a 570.0 million impairment of PharMEDium's assets in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Distribution, selling, and administrative 2,767,217 2,663,508 3.9% Depreciation and amortization 391,062 462,407 (15.4)% Employee severance, litigation, and other 6,807,307 330,474 Impairment of long-lived assets 361,652 570,000 Total operating expenses 10,327,238 4,026,389 156.5% Distribution, selling, and administrative expenses increased 3.9%, or 103.7 million, from the prior fiscal year. The increase from the prior fiscal year was Depreciation expense decreased 5.0% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the reduction of H.D. Smith depreciable assets in connection with the Employee severance, litigation, and other in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 included a 6.6 billion legal accrual (see Note 14 of the Notes to Employee severance, litigation, and other in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 included 34.1 million of severance costs primarily related to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents Operating Income PharMEDium shutdown costs New York State Opioid Stewardship Act contingent consideration adjustment acquisition-related intangibles amortization employee severance, litigation, and other and impairment of PharMEDium assets. profit, as noted above. As a percentage of revenue, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services operating income margin was 0.99% and represented an increase of 2 basis points compared to the prior fiscal year. increase in operating expenses, primarily warehousing costs (including incremental COVID-19 expenses) and freight costs. Financial Statements), adjusted its previous estimate of contingent consideration related to the purchase price of one of its prior business acquisitions. We recorded a 13.7 million gain on the sale of an equity investment in Other (Income) Loss in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. adoption of the new lease accounting standard. Prior to October 1, 2019, we recognized interest expense associated with financing obligations in connection with lease construction assets (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Upon adoption of the new lease standard as of October 1, 2019, we began recognizing rent expense related to these leases in Distribution, Selling, and Administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Interest income was lower in the current fiscal year as a result of a decline in investment interest rates, which was offset in part by a 1.0 billion increase in average invested cash balances compared to the prior fiscal year. borrowing facilities, and strategic decisions to deploy our invested cash. (dollars in thousands) 2020 2019 Change Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 1,807,001 1,671,251 8.1% Other 400,139 380,660 5.1% Intersegment eliminations (2,693) (659) Gain from antitrust litigation settlements 9,076 145,872 LIFO (expense) credit (7,422) 22,544 PharMEDium remediation costs (16,165) (69,423) PharMEDium shutdown costs (43,206) New York State Opioid Stewardship Act (14,800) 22,000 Contingent consideration adjustment 12,153 Acquisition-related intangibles amortization (110,478) (159,848) Employee severance, litigation, and other (6,807,307) (330,474) Impairment of PharMEDium assets (361,652) (570,000) (dollars in thousands) Amount Interest expense 158,522 3.42% 195,474 3.73% Interest income (20,639) 0.69% (37,705) 1.87% Total segment operating income 2,204,447 2,051,252 7.5% Operating (loss) income (5,135,354) 1,111,923 (561.8)% Interest expense, net 137,883 157,769 Segment operating income is evaluated before gain from antitrust litigation settlements LIFO (expense) credit PharMEDium remediation costs Pharmaceutical Distribution Services operating income increased 8.1%, or 135.8 million, from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in gross Operating income in Other increased 5.1%, or 19.5 million, from the prior fiscal year due to the increase in gross profit and was offset in part by an One of our non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, Profarma, which we consolidate based on certain governance rights (see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Interest expense, net and the respective weighted average interest rates were as follows: Interest expense, net decreased 12.6%, or 19.9 million, from the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decrease in interest expense resulting from the Our interest expense in future periods may vary significantly depending upon changes in net borrowings, interest rates, amendments to our current Weighted Average Interest Rate Amount Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Weighted Average Interest Rate Table of Contents Our effective tax rates were 35.8% and 11.7% in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate due to our operating loss, the tax benefits associated with our decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business, Swiss Tax Reform, the CARES Act, and other discrete items (see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and offset in part by the tax impact of the portion of the opioid legal accrual that is not expected to be tax deductible. Our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was primarily impacted by the 570.0 million impairment of PharMEDium's assets (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and legal settlements, which changed the mix of domestic and international income. The effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was also impacted by a 37.0 million decrease to the Company's transition tax related to the 2017 Tax Act. accrual recognized in connection with opioid lawsuits. Year ended September 30, 2019 compared to the Year ended September 30, 2018 largest customers, continued strong increased specialty pharmaceutical product sales (which generally have higher selling prices), the impact of business combinations, and overall market growth principally driven by unit volume growth and, to a lesser extent, inflationary increases in brand drugs. Courier, and the January 2018 consolidation of the specialty joint venture in Brazil. (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 172,813,537 161,699,343 6.9% Total Other 6,868,341 6,332,730 8.5% Intersegment eliminations (92,757) (92,438) Increased sales to Walgreens, our largest customer 5.6 Increased sales to specialty physician practices 3.0 Increased sales to other customers 1.7 Increased sales due to Profarma and H.D. Smith business combinations 0.8 MWI Animal Health 3,975,232 3,789,759 4.9% Global Commercialization Services 2,893,109 2,542,971 13.8% Revenue 179,589,121 167,939,635 6.9% Net income attributable to AmerisourceBergen and diluted earnings per share were significantly lower in the current fiscal year primarily due to the legal Revenue increased by 6.9% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the revenue growth of our Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment grew its revenue by 6.9%, or by 11.1 billion, primarily due to the organic growth of some of its More specifically, the increase in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services segment revenue was largely attributable to the following (in billions): Revenue in Other increased 8.5% from the prior fiscal year, primarily due to ABCS's growth in its Canadian operations, growth at MWI, growth at World Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents Gross Profit impacted primarily by the increase in gross profit in Pharmaceutical Distribution Services, the increase in gross profit in Other, an increase in gains from antitrust litigation settlements, the LIFO credit in the current year in comparison to a LIFO expense in the prior year, and the reversal of a previously-estimated assessment related to the New York State Opioid Stewardship Act. largely due to strong specialty product sales, the January 2018 consolidation of Profarma, and the January 2018 acquisition of H.D. Smith and was negatively impacted by our pharmaceutical compounding operations as production at our Memphis facility had been suspended since December 2017. As a percentage of revenue, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services gross profit margin of 2.13% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 remained relatively flat compared to the prior fiscal year. consolidation of the specialty joint venture in Brazil, and ABCS's growth in its Canadian operations. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit margin in Other of 19.13% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 decreased from 19.90% in the prior fiscal year. ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The gains were recorded as reductions to cost of goods sold (see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating Expenses selling, and administrative expenses were 1.48% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, and represents a 2-basis point increase compared to the prior fiscal year. Pharmaceutical Distribution Services' segment expenses increased by 10.2% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in costs to support revenue growth, the January 2018 consolidation of Profarma, and the January 2018 acquisition of H.D. Smith. Distribution, selling, and administrative expenses in Other increased by 2.7% in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 due to an increase in costs to support revenue growth at MWI and the January 2018 consolidation of the specialty joint venture in Brazil, offset in part by a reduction in distribution, selling, and administrative expenses at ABCS. consolidation of Profarma. Amortization expense decreased 7.6% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the impairment of PharMEDium intangible assets recorded in March 2019, offset in part by the amortization of intangible assets originating from our January 2018 acquisition of H.D. Smith and the January 2018 consolidation of Profarma. (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 3,682,986 3,466,956 6.2% Other 1,314,172 1,260,485 4.3% Intersegment eliminations (659) (609) Gain from antitrust litigation settlements 145,872 35,938 LIFO credit (expense) 22,544 (67,324) PharMEDium remediation costs (48,603) (61,129) New York State Opioid Stewardship Act 22,000 (22,000) (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Distribution, selling, and administrative 2,663,508 2,460,301 8.3% Depreciation and amortization 462,407 465,127 (0.6)% Employee severance, litigation, and other 330,474 183,520 Goodwill impairment 59,684 Impairment of PharMEDium assets 570,000 Gross profit 5,138,312 4,612,317 11.4% Total operating expenses 4,026,389 3,168,632 27.1% Gross profit increased 11.4%, or 526.0 million, from the prior fiscal year. Gross profit in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was favorably Pharmaceutical Distribution Services gross profit increased 6.2%, or 216.0 million, from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in revenue Gross profit in Other increased 4.3%, or 53.7 million, from the prior fiscal year primarily due to growth at World Courier and MWI, the January 2018 We recognized gains from antitrust litigation settlements with pharmaceutical manufacturers of 145.9 million and 35.9 million during the fiscal years Distribution, selling, and administrative expenses increased 8.3%, or 203.2 million, from the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of revenue, distribution, Depreciation expense increased 3.9% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the January 2018 acquisition of H.D. Smith and the January 2018 Fiscal Year Ended Fiscal Year Ended September 30, September 30, Table of Contents PharMEDium restructuring activities, position eliminations resulting from our business transformation efforts and the integration of H.D. Smith, and restructuring activities related to our consulting business, 185.1 million of litigation costs that consisted of legal settlements totaling 116.7 million and legal fees in connection with opioid lawsuits and investigations, 55.4 million related to our business transformation efforts, 43.2 million of acquisition-related deal and integration costs (primarily related to the integration of H.D. Smith), and 12.6 million of other restructuring initiatives. position eliminations resulting from our business transformation efforts and restructuring activities related to our consulting business, 61.5 million of litigation costs primarily related to legal fees in connection with opioid lawsuits and investigations and related initiatives, 33.9 million of acquisition-related deal and integration costs (primarily related to H.D. Smith), 33.0 million related to our business transformation efforts, and 18.4 million of other restructuring initiatives. We recorded a 570.0 million impairment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). annual goodwill impairment assessment. Operating Income York State Opioid Stewardship Act acquisition-related intangibles amortization employee severance, litigation, and other goodwill impairment and impairment of PharMEDium assets. profit, offset in part by an increase in operating expenses. As a percentage of revenue, Pharmaceutical Distribution Services operating income margin decreased 4 basis points from the prior fiscal year primarily due to a lower contribution from our pharmaceutical compounding operations. increase in operating expenses. We recorded a 13.7 million gain on the sale of an equity investment in Other (Income) Loss in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. September 30, 2018. (dollars in thousands) 2019 2018 Change Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 1,671,251 1,626,748 2.7% Other 380,660 355,091 7.2% Intersegment eliminations (659) (609) Gain from antitrust litigation settlements 145,872 35,938 LIFO credit (expense) 22,544 (67,324) PharMEDium remediation costs (69,423) (66,204) New York State Opioid Stewardship Act 22,000 (22,000) Acquisition-related intangibles amortization (159,848) (174,751) Employee severance, litigation, and other (330,474) (183,520) Goodwill impairment (59,684) Impairment of PharMEDium assets (570,000) Total segment operating income 2,051,252 1,981,230 3.5% Operating income 1,111,923 1,443,685 (23.0)% Employee severance, litigation, and other in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 included 34.1 million of severance costs primarily related to Employee severance, litigation, and other in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 included 36.7 million of severance costs primarily related to We recorded a 59.7 million goodwill impairment charge at our Profarma reporting unit in the fiscal year September 30, 2018 in connection with our Segment operating income is evaluated excluding gain from antitrust litigation settlements LIFO credit (expense) PharMEDium remediation costs New Pharmaceutical Distribution Services operating income increased 2.7%, or 44.5 million, from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in gross Operating income in Other increased 7.2%, or 25.6 million, from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in gross profit, offset in part by an We recorded a 30.0 million impairment on a non-customer note receivable related to a start-up venture in Other (Income) Loss in the fiscal year ended Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents to an increase in interest income due to a 752 million increase in our average invested cash balance during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 and an increase in investment interest rates, offset in part by an increase in interest expense due to the December 2017 issuance of senior notes to finance our January 2018 acquisition of H.D. Smith and the January 2018 consolidation of Profarma's debt and related interest expense. specialty joint venture in Brazil and a 23.8 million loss on the early retirement of our 400 million of 4.875% senior notes that were due in 2019. The loss on the early retirement of the debt included a 22.3 million prepayment premium and 1.5 million of an unamortized debt discount and unamortized debt issuance costs. Our effective tax rates were 11.7% and (37.2)% in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was primarily impacted by the 570.0 million impairment of PharMEDium assets (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and legal settlements, which changed the mix of domestic and international income. The effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was also impacted by a 37.0 million decrease to the Company's transition tax related to the 2017 Tax Act. Our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 was primarily impacted by the effect of 2017 Tax Act. Our total income tax benefit in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 of 438.5 million reflects 612.6 million of tax benefits recognized and a reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, both resulting from the 2017 Tax Act. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, a portion of a 2017 legal settlement charge was determined to be deductible, which favorably impacted our effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. Our effective tax rates for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were also favorably impacted by the Company's international businesses in Switzerland and Ireland, which have lower income tax rates, and the benefit from stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting. of PharMEDium assets and the significant income tax benefit recognized in the prior fiscal year as a result of the 2017 Tax Act. and results of operations and require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and management's judgment. Actual results may differ from these estimates due to uncertainties inherent in such estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are the most dependent upon the application of estimates and assumptions. For a complete list of significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. allowance for customer sales returns and an allowance for doubtful accounts. Our customer sales return policy generally allows customers to return products only if the products can be resold at full value or returned to suppliers for full credit. We record an accrual for estimated customer sales returns at the time of sale to the customer based upon historical customer return trends. The allowance for returns as of September 30, 2020 and 2019 was 1,344.6 million and 1,147.5 million, respectively. trends, and our customers' financial strength, credit standing, payment and default history, and macroeconomic conditions. Changes in the aforementioned factors, among others, may lead to adjustments in our allowance for doubtful accounts. The calculation of the required allowance requires judgment by our management as to the impact of these and other factors on the ultimate realization of our trade receivables. Each of our business units performs (dollars in thousands) Amount Interest expense 195,474 3.73% 189,640 3.59% Interest income (37,705) 1.87% (14,941) 1.18% Interest expense, net 157,769 174,699 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Allowances for Returns and Doubtful Accounts Interest expense, net and the respective weighted average interest rates were as follows: Interest expense, net decreased 9.7%, or 16.9 million, from the prior fiscal year. The decrease in interest expense, net from the prior fiscal year was due For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a 42.3 million loss in connection with the January 2018 consolidations of Profarma and the Net income and earnings per share were significantly lower in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to the 570.0 million impairment Critical accounting policies are those policies that involve accounting estimates and assumptions that can have a material impact on our financial position Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to us for our pharmaceutical distribution and services activities and are presented net of an In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider a combination of factors, such as the aging of trade receivables, industry Weighted Average Interest Rate Amount Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Weighted Average Interest Rate Table of Contents ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and maintains reserves for probable bad debt losses based upon historical experience and for specific credit problems when they arise. We write off balances against the reserves when collectability is deemed remote. Each business unit performs formal, documented reviews of the allowance at least quarterly, and our largest business units perform such reviews monthly. There were no significant changes to this process during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, and bad debt expense was computed in a consistent manner during these periods. The bad debt expense for any period presented is equal to the changes in the period end allowance for doubtful accounts, net of write-offs, recoveries, and other adjustments. increase or decrease of 0.1% in the 2020 allowance as a percentage of trade receivables would result in an increase or decrease in the provision on accounts receivable of approximately 13.9 million. The allowance for doubtful accounts was 72.7 million and 76.4 million as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. price allocated to goodwill. We engage third-party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions it believes to be reasonable. These estimates are based upon historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to: discount rates and expected future cash flows from and economic lives of customer relationships, trade names, existing technology, and other intangible assets. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions or estimates. company resides. We identify our reporting units based upon our management reporting structure, beginning with our operating segments. We aggregate two or more components within an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics. We evaluate whether the components within our operating segments have similar economic characteristics, which include the similarity of long-term gross margins, the nature of the components' products, services, and production processes, the types of customers and the methods by which products or services are delivered to customers, and the components' regulatory environment. Our reporting units include Pharmaceutical Distribution Services, Profarma, ABCS, World Courier, and MWI. impairment at least annually. For the purpose of these impairment tests, we can elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair values of its reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than the respective carrying values of those reporting units and indefinite- lived intangible assets, respectively. Such qualitative factors can include, among other, industry and market conditions, overall financial performance, and relevant entity-specific events. If we conclude based on our qualitative assessment that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we perform a quantitative analysis. We elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, with the exception of our testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles in the MWI and the Profarma reporting units. We elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, with the exception of our testing in the Profarma reporting unit. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we elected to bypass performing the qualitative assessment and went directly to performing our annual quantitative assessments of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is required, and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, the difference between the carrying value and the fair value is recorded as an impairment loss, the amount of which may not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Profarma reporting unit, the fair value of which is based upon its publicly-traded stock price, plus an estimated control premium. The income-based approach relies on a discounted cash flow analysis, which considers forecasted cash flows discounted at an appropriate discount rate, to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We generally Business Combinations Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Bad debt expense for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was 11.9 million, 25.2 million, and 16.7 million, respectively. An Schedule II of this Form 10-K sets forth a rollforward of allowances for returns and doubtful accounts. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed upon the acquisition or consolidation of a business are recorded at fair value, with the residual of the purchase Goodwill arises from acquisitions or consolidations of specific operating companies and is assigned to the reporting unit in which a particular operating Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as certain trademarks and trade names, are not amortized rather, they are tested for The quantitative goodwill impairment test requires us to compare the carrying value of the reporting unit's net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. When performing a quantitative impairment assessment, we utilize an income-based approach to value our reporting units, with the exception of the Table of Contents believe that market participants would use a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of our reporting units in a sale transaction. The annual goodwill impairment test requires us to make a number of assumptions and estimates concerning future levels of revenue growth, operating margins, depreciation, amortization, capital expenditures, and working capital requirements, which are based upon our long-range plan. The discount rate is an estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by a market participant whose weighted average cost of capital includes both debt and equity, including a risk premium. While we use the best available information to prepare our cash flows and discount rate assumptions, actual future cash flows and or market conditions could differ significantly resulting in future impairment charges related to recorded goodwill balances. While there are always changes in assumptions to reflect changing business and market conditions, our overall methodology and the population of assumptions used have remained unchanged. fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. We estimate the fair value of our indefinite- lived intangibles using the relief from royalty method. We believe the relief from royalty method is a widely used valuation technique for such assets. The fair value derived from the relief from royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such indefinite-lived trademarks and trade names and not having to pay a royalty for their use. September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018. We recorded a goodwill impairment of 59.7 million in our Profarma reporting unit in connection with our fiscal 2018 annual impairment test. No goodwill impairments were recorded in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. No indefinite-lived intangible impairments were recorded in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018. in December 2017 at its largest compounding facility located in Memphis, Tennessee pending execution of certain remedial measures. we performed a recoverability assessment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets and recorded a 570.0 million impairment loss in the quarter ended March 31, 2019 for the amount that the carrying value of the PharMEDium asset group exceeded its fair value. Prior to the impairment, the carrying value of the asset group was 792 million. The fair value of the asset group was 222 million as of March 31, 2019. The PharMEDium asset group was included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment. Significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of PharMEDium's asset group included (i) a 15% discount rate, which contemplated a higher risk at PharMEDium (ii) the period in which PharMEDium will resume production at or near capacity and (iii) the estimated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) margins when considering the likelihood of higher operating and compliance costs. We believed that our fair value assumptions were representative of market participant assumptions however, the forecasted cash flows used to estimate fair value and measure the related impairment were inherently uncertain and included assumptions that differed from actual results in future periods (see below). This represents a Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurement. We allocated 522.1 million of the impairment to finite-lived intangibles ( 420.8 million of customer relationships, 79.9 million of a trade name, and 21.4 million of software technology) and 47.9 million of the impairment to property and equipment. lived assets were recoverable as of September 30, 2019. regulatory matters, ongoing operational challenges, and lower-than-expected operating results, we updated our recoverability assessment of PharMEDium s long- lived assets as of December 31, 2019. The recoverability assessment was based upon comparing PharMEDium's forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its asset group. Using forecasted undiscounted cash flows that were based on the weighted average of multiple strategic alternatives, we concluded that the carrying value of the PharMEDium long-lived asset group was not recoverable as of December 31, 2019. The forecasted undiscounted cash flows as of December 31, 2019 were lower than the forecasted undiscounted cash flows as of September 30, 2019 due to a change in weighting of multiple strategic alternatives and lower operating results in the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to expectations. We then performed an impairment test by comparing the PharMEDium asset group's fair value of 145 million to its carrying value, which resulted in a 138.0 million impairment loss in the three months ended December 31, 2019. Significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of PharMEDium's asset group included (i) a 17% discount rate, which contemplated a higher risk at PharMEDium (ii) the period in which PharMEDium will resume production at or near capacity and (iii) the estimated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) margins when considering the likelihood of higher operating and compliance costs. We believed The quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (certain trademarks and trade names) consists of a comparison of the We completed our required annual impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of the fiscal years ended We perform a recoverability assessment of our long-lived assets when impairment indicators are present. After U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") inspections of PharMEDium's compounding facilities, we voluntarily suspended production activities As a result of the suspension of production activities at PharMEDium's compounding facility located in Memphis, Tennessee and the regulatory matters, We updated our recoverability assessment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets as of September 30, 2019, and we concluded that PharMEDium s long- As a result of the continued suspension of the production activities at PharMEDium's compounding facility located in Memphis, Tennessee, certain Table of Contents that our fair value assumptions were representative of market participant assumptions however, the forecasted cash flows used to estimate fair value and measure the related impairment were inherently uncertain and included assumptions that differed from actual results in future periods (see below). This represented a Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurement. We allocated 123.2 million of the impairment to finite-lived intangibles, 11.6 million of the impairment to property and equipment, and 3.2 million to ROU assets. operations related to this business in fiscal 2020. The decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium business was due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, ongoing operational, regulatory, and commercial challenges, such as PharMEDium's decision in January 2020 to suspend production at the compounding facility in New Jersey pending facility upgrades related to the air handling and filtration systems. In connection with the decision to exit the PharMEDium business, we recorded an impairment of PharMEDium's assets of 223.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020, which included impairments of the remaining finite-lived intangible assets and the majority of the remaining tangible assets. paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, we anticipate that no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other deferred income tax assets described above. interpretations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation, and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions' tax court systems. Significant judgment is exercised in applying complex tax laws and regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based upon the technical merits of the position. for uncertain tax positions are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. However, others applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. If any of our assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by 1% on income before income taxes would have caused income tax expense to change by 52.9 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. opioid litigation, and the 2017 Tax Act, refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. respectively, has been determined using the LIFO method. If we had used the first-in, first-out method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have been approximately 1,519.2 million and 1,511.8 million higher than the amounts reported as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We recorded LIFO expenses of 7.4 million and 67.3 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2018, respectively. We recorded a LIFO credit of 22.5 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. The annual LIFO provision is affected by manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences, changes in inventory quantities, and product mix, many of which are difficult to predict. Changes to any of the above factors can have a material impact to our annual LIFO provision. Income Taxes Inventories In January 2020, we decided to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business, and, as a result, we ceased all commercial and administrative Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and uncertain tax positions reflect management's assessment of estimated future taxes to be We have established a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring We prepare and file tax returns based upon our interpretation of tax laws and regulations and record estimates based upon these judgments and We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and the amount of benefits recognized in our financial statements The significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. For a complete discussion of the impact of the CARES Act, the PharMEDium worthless stock deduction, Swiss Tax Reform, the legal accrual related to Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost for approximately 70% and 75% of our inventories as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, Table of Contents stockholder demands, and other disputes, including antitrust, commercial, product liability, intellectual property, regulatory, employment discrimination, and other matters. Significant damages or penalties may be sought in some matters, and some matters may require years to resolve. We record a liability when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We also perform an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either not probable or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, we provide disclosure of the loss contingency and whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can made in the footnotes to our financial statements. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made. Among the loss contingencies we considered in accordance with the foregoing in connection with the preparation of the accompanying financial statements were the opioid matters described in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. receivables securitization facility, the revolving credit note, and the overdraft facility: provided sufficient capital resources to finance working capital and cash operating requirements, and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, repayment of debt, the payment of interest on outstanding debt, dividends, and purchases of shares of our common stock. purchases of our common stock, fund the payment of dividends, finance acquisitions, and fund capital expenditures and routine growth and expansion through new business opportunities. Future cash flows from operations and borrowings are expected to be sufficient to fund our ongoing cash requirements, including the opioid litigation payments that are expected to be made over 18 years (see below). distribution of prescription opioid pain medications, we recorded a 6.6 billion ( 5.5 billion, net of an income tax benefit) charge. We are in advanced discussions, which are ongoing, to reach a global settlement of the MDL and related state-court litigation brought by certain state and local governmental entities in which our payment would be over 18 years to resolve cases currently filed and that could be filed by states, counties, municipalities, and other government entities. A portion of this amount relating to plaintiff attorney fees would be payable over a shorter time period. The (in thousands) Fixed-Rate Debt: 500,000, 3.40% senior notes due 2024 498,232 500,000, 3.25% senior notes due 2025 496,990 750,000, 3.45% senior notes due 2027 743,940 500,000, 2.80% senior notes due 2030 494,045 500,000, 4.25% senior notes due 2045 494,730 500,000, 4.30% senior notes due 2047 492,755 Nonrecourse debt 58,081 Variable-Rate Debt: Revolving credit note 75,000 Term loan due October 2020 399,982 Overdraft facility due 2021 ( 30,000) 38,770 Receivables securitization facility due 2022 350,000 1,100,000 Multi-currency revolving credit facility due 2024 1,400,000 Nonrecourse debt 90,765 Total fixed-rate debt 3,278,773 Total variable-rate debt 840,747 2,613,770 Total debt 4,119,520 2,613,770 Loss Contingencies Liquidity and Capital Resources In the ordinary course of business, we become involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, government subpoenas, government investigations, The following illustrates our debt structure as of September 30, 2020, including availability under the multi-currency revolving credit facility, the Our operating results have generated cash flows, which, together with availability under our debt agreements and credit terms from suppliers, have Our primary ongoing cash requirements will be to finance working capital, fund the repayment of debt, fund the payment of interest on debt, fund As discussed in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, with regard to litigation relating to the Outstanding Additional Availability Table of Contents aforementioned litigation accrual has not and is not expected to have an impact on our compliance with our debt covenants or our ability to pay dividends. are generally based in U.S. dollar denominated holdings. We have the ability to repatriate the majority of our cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries without incurring significant additional taxes upon repatriation. require the use of our credit facilities to fund short-term capital needs. Our cash balance in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 needed to be supplemented by intra-period credit facility borrowings to cover short-term working capital needs. The largest amount of intra-period borrowings under our revolving and securitization credit facilities that was outstanding at any one time during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 was 39.6 million and 240.6 million, respectively. We had 117.4 million, 606.0 million, and 25,115.3 million of cumulative intra-period borrowings that were repaid under our credit facilities during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. In May 2020, we issued 500 million of 2.80% senior notes due May 15, 2030 (the "2030 Notes"). The 2030 Notes were sold at 99.71% of the principal amount and have an effective yield of 2.81%. Interest on the 2030 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears, commencing on November 15, 2020. 21.4 million prepayment premium in connection with this early retirement. December 15, 2047 ("the 2047 Notes"). The 2027 Notes were sold at 99.76% of the principal amount and have an effective yield of 3.48%. The 2047 Notes were sold at 99.51% of the principal amount and have an effective yield of 4.33%. Interest on the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears and commenced on June 15, 2018. We used the proceeds from the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes to finance the early retirement of our 400 million of 4.875% senior notes that were due in 2019, including the payment of a 22.3 million prepayment premium, and to finance the acquisition of H.D. Smith, which was completed in January 2018. which is scheduled to expire in September 2024. Interest on borrowings under the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility accrues at specified rates based upon our debt rating and ranges from 70 basis points to 112.5 basis points over CDOR LIBOR EURIBOR Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee, as applicable (91 basis points over CDOR LIBOR EURIBOR Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee as of September 30, 2020) and from 0 basis points to 12.5 basis points over the alternate base rate and Canadian prime rate, as applicable. We pay facility fees to maintain the availability under the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility at specified rates based upon our debt rating, ranging from 5 basis points to 12.5 basis points, annually, of the total commitment (9 basis points as of September 30, 2020). We may choose to repay or reduce our commitments under the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility at any time. The Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants, including compliance with a financial leverage ratio test, as well as others that impose limitations on, among other things, indebtedness of subsidiaries and asset sales, with which we were compliant as of September 30, 2020. at any one time. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed from time to time. The maturities on the notes will vary, but may not exceed 365 days from the date of issuance. The notes will bear interest, if interest bearing, or will be sold at a discount from their face amounts. The commercial paper program does not increase our borrowing capacity as it is fully backed by our Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program as of September 30, 2020 and 2019. have available to us an accordion feature whereby the commitment on the Receivables Securitization Facility may be increased by up to 250 million, subject to lender approval, for seasonal needs during the December and March quarters. Interest rates are based upon prevailing market rates for short-term commercial paper or LIBOR plus a program fee. We pay a customary unused fee at prevailing market rates, annually, to maintain the availability under the Receivables Securitization Facility. The Receivables Securitization Facility contains similar covenants to the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility, with which we were compliant as of September 30, 2020. As of September 30, 2020 and 2019, our cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries were 675.9 million and 826.8 million, respectively, and We have increased seasonal needs related to our inventory build during the December and March quarters that, depending on our cash balance, may We used the proceeds from the 2030 Notes to finance the early retirement of the 500 million of 3.50% senior notes that were due in 2021 and made a In December 2017, we issued 750 million of 3.45% senior notes due December 15, 2027 (the "2027 Notes") and 500 million of 4.30% senior notes due We have a 1.4 billion multi-currency senior unsecured revolving credit facility ("Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders, We have a commercial paper program whereby we may from time to time issue short-term promissory notes in an aggregate amount of up to 1.4 billion We have a 1,450 million receivables securitization facility ("Receivables Securitization Facility"), which is scheduled to expire in September 2022. We Table of Contents In April 2019, we elected to repay 150.0 million of our outstanding Receivables Securitization Facility balance prior to the scheduled maturity date. revolving basis certain accounts receivable to Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned special purpose entity, which in turn sells a percentage ownership interest in the receivables to financial institutions and commercial paper conduits sponsored by financial institutions. AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation is the servicer of the accounts receivable under the Receivables Securitization Facility. As sold receivables are collected, additional receivables may be sold up to the maximum amount available under the facility. We use the facility as a financing vehicle because it generally offers an attractive interest rate relative to other financing sources. Note provides us with the ability to request short-term unsecured revolving credit loans from time to time in a principal amount not to exceed 75 million. The Revolving Credit Note may be decreased or terminated by the bank or us at any time without prior notice. We also have a 30 million uncommitted U.K. overdraft facility ("Overdraft Facility"), which expires in February 2021, to fund short-term, normal trading cycle fluctuations related to our MWI business. Loan"), which matures in October 2020. The October 2018 Term Loan bears interest at a rate equal to a base rate or LIBOR, plus a margin of 65 basis points. The October 2018 Term Loan contains similar covenants to the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility, with which we were compliant as of September 30, 2020. senior notes due March 1, 2025, and 500 million of 4.25% senior notes due March 1, 2045 (collectively, the "Notes"). Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears. Nonrecourse debt is comprised of short-term and long-term debt belonging to the Brazil subsidiaries and is repaid solely from the Brazil subsidiaries' cash flows and such debt agreements provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts, and cash flows of the Brazil subsidiaries. stock, subject to market conditions. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we purchased 663.1 million of our common stock under this program, which included 24.0 million of September 2018 purchases that cash settled in October 2018. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we purchased 125.8 million of our common stock under this program, which excluded 24.0 million of September 2018 purchases that cash settled in October 2018, to complete our authorization under this program. In October 2018, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program allowing us to purchase up to 1.0 billion of our shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we purchased 538.9 million of our common stock under this program, which included 14.8 million of September 2019 purchases that cash settled in October 2019. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, we purchased 405.6 million of our common stock, which excluded 14.8 million of September 2019 purchases that cash settled in October 2019. As of September 30, 2020, we had 55.5 million of availability remaining under this program. stock, subject to market conditions. noncancellable operating leases, and minimum payments on our other commitments as of September 30, 2020: Payments Due by Period (in thousands) Within 1 year 617,096 117,680 97,192 831,968 1-3 years 628,756 216,196 66,970 911,922 4-5 years 1,210,455 177,253 84,898 1,472,606 After 5 years 3,285,045 376,396 58,251 3,719,692 Total 5,741,352 887,525 307,311 6,936,188 In connection with the Receivables Securitization Facility, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and a specialty distribution subsidiary sell on a We have an uncommitted, unsecured line of credit available to us pursuant to a revolving credit note ("Revolving Credit Note"). The Revolving Credit In October 2018, we refinanced 400 million of outstanding term loans by issuing a new 400 million variable-rate term loan ("October 2018 Term In October 2020, we repaid the 400 million October 2018 Term Loan that became due. In addition to the 2027 Notes, the 2030 Notes, and the 2047 Notes, we have 500 million of 3.40% senior notes due May 15, 2024, 500 million of 3.25% In November 2016, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program allowing us to purchase up to 1.0 billion in shares of our common In May 2020, our board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program allowing us to purchase up to 500 of our outstanding shares of common The following is a summary of our contractual obligations for future principal and interest payments on our debt, minimum rental payments on our Interest Payments Debt, Including Operating Leases Other Commitments Total Table of Contents The 2017 Tax Act required a one-time transition tax to be recognized on historical foreign earnings and profits. We currently estimate that our liability related to the transition tax is 182.6 million, net of overpayments and tax credits, as of September 30, 2020, which is payable in installments over a six-year period commencing in January 2021. The transition tax commitment is included in "Other Commitments" in the above table. 371.5 million for an uncertain tax position related to the 6.6 billion legal accrual for litigation related to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications, as disclosed in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of September 30, 2020, a settlement has not been reached, and, therefore, we applied significant judgment in estimating the ultimate amount of the opioid litigation settlement that would be deductible for U.S. federal and state purposes. In estimating the amount that would ultimately be deductible, we considered prior U.S. tax case law, the amount and character of the damages sought in the opioid litigation, the inherent uncertainty related to litigation of this nature and magnitude, and other relevant factors. While we believe that our estimate of the uncertain tax position appropriately reflects these considerations, it is reasonably possible that the uncertain tax position recognized as of September 30, 2020 may be revised in future periods as the settlement with the various plaintiffs is finalized. The remaining amount of the liability represents an estimate of tax positions that we have taken in our tax returns or expect to take in future tax returns which may ultimately not be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. Since the amount and timing of any future cash settlements cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty, the estimated liability has been excluded from the above contractual obligations table. Cash provided by operations in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 was principally the result of an increase in the accrued litigation liability of 6,198.9 million, an increase in accounts payable of 3,300.8 million, and an increase in accrued expenses of 524.0 million, largely offset in part by a net loss of 3,399.6 million, an increase in accounts receivable of 1,629.0 million, an increase in inventories of 1,621.1 million, non-cash items of 662.4 million, and an increase in income taxes receivable of 482.6 million. The increases in the accrued litigation liability and accrued expenses were primarily due to a legal accrual for litigation relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications (see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by the increase in inventories and the timing of scheduled payments to suppliers. The increase in accounts receivable was the result of our revenue growth and the timing of payments from our customers. The increase in inventories was due to an increase in business volume. Non-cash items were comprised primarily of a deferred income tax benefit of 1,545.0 million primarily related to a legal accrual in connection with opioid lawsuits and Swiss Tax Reform, offset in part by a 361.7 million impairment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), 290.7 million of depreciation expense, and 117.3 million of amortization expense. The increase in income taxes receivable was the result of a benefit recorded in connection with certain discrete items (see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, could reduce purchases by our customers. In addition, volatility in financial markets may also negatively impact our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in the ability of our customers to remit payments to us could adversely affect our revenue growth, our profitability, and our cash flow from operations. metrics are calculated based upon an annual average and can be impacted by the timing of cash receipts and disbursements, which can vary significantly depending upon the day of the week in which the month ends. Additionally, any changes to payment terms with a significant customer or manufacturer supplier could have a material impact to our cash flows from operations. Operating cash flows during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 included 150.7 million of interest payments and 139.4 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. Operating cash flows during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 included 167.4 million of interest payments and 117.7 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. Operating cash flows during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 included 162.1 million of interest payments and 104.0 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2018 Days sales outstanding 24.8 25.2 24.5 Days inventory on hand 28.9 28.4 29.9 Days payable outstanding 57.8 57.6 56.7 Our liability for uncertain tax positions was 498.3 million (including interest and penalties) as of September 30, 2020. Included in this balance is During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, our operating activities provided cash of 2,207.0 million and 2,344.0 million, respectively. Deterioration of general economic conditions, among other factors, could adversely affect the number of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of We use days sales outstanding, days inventory on hand, and days payable outstanding to evaluate our working capital performance. The below financial Our cash flows from operating activities can vary significantly from period to period based upon fluctuations in our period end working capital. Table of Contents Cash provided by operations in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 was principally the result of an increase in accounts payable of 1,561.0 million, non- cash items of 1,120.7 million, and net income of 854.1 million, offset in part by an increase in accounts receivable of 1,241.9 million. The increase in accounts payable was primarily driven by the timing of scheduled payments to suppliers. Non-cash items were comprised primarily of a 570 million impairment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), 321.1 million of depreciation expense, and 176.4 million of amortization expense. The increase in accounts receivable was the result of our revenue growth and the timing of payments from our customers. Significant capital expenditures in fiscal 2020 included investments in various technology initiatives, including costs related to enhancing and upgrading our primary information technology operating systems. Significant capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 included costs associated with the construction of a new support facility and technology initiatives, including costs related to enhancing and upgrading our information technology systems. Significant capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 included technology initiatives, including costs related to enhancing and upgrading our information technology systems and costs associated with expanding distribution capacity. investments related to various technology initiatives and new facilities. respectively. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we acquired H.D. Smith, the largest independent pharmaceutical wholesaler in the United States, for 815.0 million. In addition, we made incremental investments in Brazil totaling 78.1 million. The cash used for the above investments was offset by 179.6 million of cash consolidated in connection with the Brazil investments (see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). and 343.6 million in cash dividends paid on our common stock. and 339.0 million in cash dividends paid on our common stock. senior notes, 639.2 million in purchases of our common stock, and 333.0 million in cash dividends paid on our common stock, offset in part by the issuance of 750.0 million of 3.45% senior notes and 500 million of 4.3% senior notes. discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, and other factors. variable-rate debt. The amount of variable-rate debt fluctuates during the year based on our working capital requirements. We had 0.8 billion of variable-rate debt outstanding as of September 30, 2020. We periodically evaluate financial instruments to manage our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates. However, there are no assurances that such instruments will be available in the combinations we want and or on terms acceptable to us. There were no such financial instruments in effect as of September 30, 2020. equivalents as of September 30, 2020. The unfavorable impact of a hypothetical decrease in Per Share Date New Rate Old Rate % Increase November 2017 0.380 0.365 4% November 2018 0.400 0.380 5% January 2020 0.420 0.400 5% November 2020 0.440 0.420 5% Market Risk During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, our operating activities provided cash of 2,344.0 million and 1,411.4 million, respectively. Capital expenditures in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were 369.7 million, 310.2 million, and 336.4 million, respectively. We currently expect to spend approximately 400 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2021. Larger 2021 capital expenditures will include We acquired businesses to support our animal health business for 54.0 million and 70.0 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, Net cash used in financing activities in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 principally related to 420.4 million in purchases of our common stock, Net cash used in financing activities in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 principally related to 674.0 million in purchases of our common stock Net cash used in financing activities in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 principally included the early retirement of the 400 million of 4.875% Our board of directors approved the following quarterly dividend increases: We anticipate that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the We have market risk exposure to interest rate fluctuations relating to our debt. We manage interest rate risk by using a combination of fixed-rate and We also have market risk exposure to interest rate fluctuations relating to our cash and cash equivalents. We had 4,597.7 million in cash and cash Dividend Increases Table of Contents interest rates on cash and cash equivalents would be partially offset by the favorable impact of such a decrease on variable-rate debt. For every 100 million of cash invested that is in excess of variable-rate debt, a 10-basis point decrease in interest rates would increase our annual net interest expense by 0.1 million. primarily with the Euro, the U.K. Pound Sterling, the Canadian Dollar, and the Brazilian Real. Revenue from our foreign operations is approximately two percent of our consolidated revenue. We may utilize foreign currency denominated forward contracts to hedge against changes in foreign exchange rates. We may use derivative instruments to hedge our foreign currency exposure, but not for speculative or trading purposes. We have minimal exposure to foreign currency and exchange rate risk from our non-U.S. operations. Our largest exposure to foreign exchange rates exists Table of Contents Certain of the statements contained in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Words such as "expect," "likely," "outlook," "forecast," "would," "could," "should," "can," "project," "intend," "plan," "continue," "sustain," "synergy," "on track," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "anticipate," "may," "possible," "assume," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward- looking statements. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances and speak only as of the date hereof. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on assumptions and estimates that could prove incorrect or could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied are the following: unfavorable trends in brand and generic pharmaceutical pricing, including in rate or frequency of price inflation or deflation competition and industry consolidation of both customers and suppliers resulting in increasing pressure to reduce prices for our products and services changes in the United States healthcare and regulatory environment, including changes that could impact prescription drug reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid increasing governmental regulations regarding the pharmaceutical supply channel declining reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals continued federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances continued prosecution or suit by federal, state and other governmental entities of alleged violations of laws and regulations regarding controlled substances, including due to failure to achieve a global resolution of the multi-district opioid litigation and other related state court litigation, and any related disputes, including shareholder derivative lawsuits increased federal scrutiny and litigation, including qui tam litigation, for alleged violations of laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale, purchase and or dispensing of pharmaceutical products or services, and associated reserves and costs failure to comply with the Corporate Integrity Agreement material adverse resolution of pending legal proceedings the retention of key customer or supplier relationships under less favorable economics or the adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers changes to customer or supplier payment terms, including as a result of the COVID-19 impact on such payment terms risks associated with the strategic, long-term relationship between Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. and the Company, including principally with respect to the pharmaceutical distribution agreement and or the global generic purchasing services arrangement changes in tax laws or legislative initiatives that could adversely affect the Company s tax positions and or the Company s tax liabilities or adverse resolution of challenges to the Company s tax positions managing foreign expansion, including non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, anti-bribery laws, economic sanctions and import laws and regulations substantial defaults in payment, material reduction in purchases by or the loss, bankruptcy or insolvency of a major customer, including as a result of COVID-19 the loss, bankruptcy or insolvency of a major supplier, including as a result of COVID-19 financial market volatility and disruption financial and other impacts of COVID-19 on our operations or business continuity changes to the customer or supplier mix malfunction, failure or breach of sophisticated information systems to operate as designed risks generally associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data natural disasters or other unexpected events that affect the Company s operations the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets (including any additional impairments with respect to foreign operations), resulting in a charge to earnings the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as expected, or that are difficult to integrate or control, or the inability to capture all of the anticipated synergies related thereto or to capture the anticipated synergies within the expected time period the Company's ability to manage and complete divestitures the disruption of the Company s cash flow and ability to return value to its stockholders in accordance with its past practices interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations declining economic conditions in the United States and abroad and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and or operational factors affecting the Company s business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are set forth (i) elsewhere in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, (ii) in Item 1A (Risk Factors), (iii) Item 1 (Business), (iv) elsewhere in this report, and (v) in other reports filed by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by the federal securities laws. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Company's common stock. See discussion on page 43 under the heading "Market Risk," which is incorporated by reference herein. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The Company's most significant market risks are the effects of changing interest rates, foreign currency risk, and the changes in the price of the Table of Contents ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 47 Consolidated Financial Statements: Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, 2019 and 2018 50 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 51 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 52 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 53 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 54 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55 Table of Contents To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AmerisourceBergen Corporation Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2020, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at September 30, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated November 19, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. Description of the Matter As discussed in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company is involved in a significant number of lawsuits with counties, municipalities, and other governmental entities in a majority of U.S. states and Puerto Rico, as well as several tribes relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications ( opioid litigation ). The Company recognizes a liability for those legal contingencies for which it is probable that a liability has been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the amount is reasonably estimable. The Company has recognized a 6.6 billion ( 5.5 billion after tax) charge related to the opioid litigation for the year ended September 30, 2020 and has disclosed that it is unable to estimate the range of possible loss in excess of the amount accrued. In connection with this charge, the Company recognized a related income tax benefit, which reflects an unrecognized tax benefit resulting from uncertainty in the amount that is more likely than not to be deductible for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes based in part upon the final terms and conditions of a settlement agreement. The Company used significant judgment in measuring the amount of income tax benefit that qualified for recognition and may ultimately be deductible for U.S. federal and state purposes. Legal Matters and Contingencies - Opioid Lawsuits REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM Table of Contents How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit Auditing management s determination of whether the opioid litigation liability is probable and reasonably estimable, and the related measurement and disclosures, is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. For instance, auditing management s judgments related to the opioid litigation was challenging due to the significant judgment applied in determining the timing and magnitude of the liability and whether a range of possible loss in excess of the amount accrued is reasonably estimable, based upon the progress of settlement discussions and a potential settlement framework. In addition, auditing management's estimate of the amount of income tax benefit related to the Company's uncertain tax position that qualified for recognition was challenging because the assumptions and estimates require significant judgment as they are based upon settlement terms and documentation, including provisions related to deductibility, that have not been finalized. We tested the Company s internal controls that address the risks of material misstatement related to the completeness, valuation, presentation and disclosure of the opioid litigation liability and related uncertain tax position. This included testing controls related to the Company s process for identification, recognition, measurement and disclosure of the opioid litigation and testing controls related to the Company s process to assess the technical merits of its tax position, including the Company s assessment as to the amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement with taxing authorities. For example, we inspected management s review of correspondence from external legal counsel, historical legal settlements executed by the Company and those executed by other defendants, actions and statements made by the Company, and communications with the plaintiffs to determine the completeness and accuracy of the opioid litigation liability and the related financial statement footnote disclosures. To test the Company s opioid litigation liability, our substantive audit procedures included, among others, testing the completeness of the opioid litigation contingencies subject to evaluation by the Company and evaluating the Company s analysis of its assessment of the probability of outcome by considering the progress of settlement discussions involving the opioid litigation and communications with plaintiffs, as well as the experience of other similar entities when evaluating the Company s conclusions. We inspected responses to inquiry letters sent to both internal and external legal counsel, held discussions with internal and external legal counsel to confirm our understanding of the settlement discussions, and obtained written representations from executives of the Company. We also compared the Company s assessment with its relevant history of similar legal contingencies that have been settled or otherwise resolved to evaluate the consistency of the Company s assessment for outstanding legal contingencies at the balance sheet date. In addition, we also evaluated the adequacy of the Company s financial statement disclosures. We involved our tax subject matter professionals in assessing the technical merits and measurement of the Company s tax position related to the opioid litigation liability. We examined the Company s analysis and evaluated the underlying facts upon which the tax position was based. We used our knowledge of historical settlement activity to evaluate the Company s measurement of the uncertain tax position associated with the opioid litigation. This included evaluating third-party advice obtained by the Company and performing inquiries of the Company s external income tax advisers. We also evaluated the adequacy of the Company s financial statement disclosures and obtained written representations from executives of the Company related to this income tax matter. Table of Contents We have served as the Company's auditor since 1985. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania November 19, 2020 s Ernst & Young LLP Description of the Matter As discussed in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements, in addition to the opioid litigation addressed above, the Company is involved in government subpoenas, civil investigative demands, derivative actions, and other disputes. The Company recognizes a liability for those legal contingencies for which it is probable that a liability has been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the amount is reasonably estimable. The Company also performs an assessment of the materiality of legal contingencies where a loss is either reasonably possible or it is reasonably possible that an exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. If it is reasonably possible that such a loss or an additional loss may have been incurred and the effect on the consolidated financial statements is material, the Company discloses the nature of the loss contingency and an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made within the notes to the consolidated financial statements. How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit Other Legal Matters and Contingencies Auditing management s determination of whether a loss for a legal contingency is probable and reasonably estimable, reasonably possible or remote, and the related measurement and disclosures, is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. For instance, auditing management s judgments was challenging due to the significant judgment applied in determining the likelihood of resolution of the matters through settlement or litigation. We tested the Company s internal controls that address the risks of material misstatement related to the completeness, valuation, presentation and disclosure of legal contingencies. This included testing controls related to the Company s process for identification, recognition, measurement and disclosure of legal contingencies. For example, we tested controls over management s review of correspondence from external legal counsel, historical legal settlements executed by the Company and those executed by other defendants, actions and statements made by the Company, and communications with the plaintiffs to determine the completeness and accuracy of legal contingencies and the related financial statement footnote disclosures. We also tested controls over management s assessment of the likelihood of the resolution of the matters through settlement or litigation. To test the Company s legal contingencies, our substantive audit procedures included, among others, testing the completeness of the legal contingencies subject to evaluation by the Company and evaluating the Company s analysis of its assessment of the probability of outcome for each material legal contingency through inspection of responses to inquiry letters sent to both internal and external legal counsel, discussions with internal and external legal counsel to confirm our understanding of the allegations, and obtaining written representations from executives of the Company. We also compared the Company s assessment with its relevant history of similar legal contingencies that have been settled or otherwise resolved to evaluate the consistency of the Company s assessment for outstanding legal contingencies at the balance sheet date. For those legal contingencies for which the Company has determined that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable and is therefore required to be recognized, and for those legal contingencies for which the Company has determined that a loss is either probable or reasonably possible, but the Company is unable to estimate the range of loss, and is therefore required to be disclosed, we evaluated the method of measuring the amounts of the recorded and disclosed contingencies. We assessed the Company s estimate of the amount of the loss, for both contingencies that are probable and reasonably possible, through inspection of responses to inquiry letters sent to both internal and external legal counsel, direct discussions with internal and external legal counsel, inspection of court rulings, and inspection of settlement agreements. We also obtained written representations from executives of the Company. Table of Contents (in thousands, except share and per share data) 2020 2019 Current assets: Property and equipment, net 1,484,808 1,770,516 Goodwill 6,706,719 6,705,507 Other intangible assets 1,886,107 2,294,836 Deferred income taxes 361,640 Other assets 779,854 269,067 TOTAL ASSETS 44,274,830 39,171,980 Current liabilities: Long-term debt 3,618,261 4,033,880 Long-term financing obligation (Note 1) 320,518 Accrued income taxes 284,845 284,075 Deferred income taxes 686,485 1,860,195 Other liabilities 472,855 98,812 Accrued litigation liability 6,198,943 Commitments and contingencies (Note 14) Stockholders' (deficit) equity: Noncontrolling interest 179,288 114,289 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' (DEFICIT) EQUITY 44,274,830 39,171,980 Common stock, 0.01 par value authorized, issued, and outstanding: Cash and cash equivalents 4,597,746 3,374,194 Accounts receivable, less allowances for returns and doubtful accounts: 2020 1,417,308 2019 1,222,906 13,846,301 12,386,879 Inventories 12,589,278 11,060,254 Right to recover asset 1,344,649 1,147,483 Income tax receivable (Note 5) 488,428 5,859 Prepaid expenses and other 189,300 157,385 Accounts payable 31,705,055 28,385,074 Accrued expenses and other 1,646,763 1,057,208 Short-term debt 501,259 139,012 Additional paid-in capital 5,081,776 4,850,142 Retained earnings 518,335 4,235,491 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (108,830) (111,965) Treasury stock, at cost: 2020 83,564,014 shares 2019 78,534,516 shares (6,513,083) (6,097,604) Total current assets 33,055,702 28,132,054 Total AmerisourceBergen Corporation stockholders' (deficit) equity (1,018,924) 2,878,917 Total (deficit) equity (839,636) 2,993,206 2020 600,000,000 shares, 287,790,479 shares and 204,226,465 shares 2019 600,000,000 shares, 285,295,170 shares and 206,760,654 shares 2,878 2,853 Total current liabilities 33,853,077 29,581,294 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' (DEFICIT) EQUITY AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES See notes to consolidated financial statements. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS September 30, Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands, except per share data) 2020 2019 2018 Revenue 189,893,926 179,589,121 167,939,635 Cost of goods sold 184,702,042 174,450,809 163,327,318 Gross profit 5,191,884 5,138,312 4,612,317 Operating expenses: Operating (loss) income (5,135,354) 1,111,923 1,443,685 Other (income) loss (1,581) (12,952) 25,469 Interest expense, net 137,883 157,769 174,699 Loss on consolidation of equity investments 42,328 Loss on early retirement of debt 22,175 23,766 (Loss) income before income taxes (5,293,831) 967,106 1,177,423 Income tax (benefit) expense (1,894,273) 112,971 (438,469) Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (9,158) 1,230 42,513 Net (loss) income attributable to AmerisourceBergen Corporation (3,408,716) 855,365 1,658,405 Earnings per share: Weighted average common shares outstanding: Distribution, selling, and administrative 2,767,217 2,663,508 2,460,301 Depreciation 280,187 294,965 283,971 Amortization 110,875 167,442 181,156 Employee severance, litigation, and other (Note 13) 6,807,307 330,474 183,520 Goodwill impairment 59,684 Impairment of PharMEDium assets (Note 1) 361,652 570,000 Basic (16.65) 4.07 7.61 Diluted (16.65) 4.04 7.53 Basic 204,783 210,165 217,872 Diluted 204,783 211,840 220,336 Net (loss) income (3,399,558) 854,135 1,615,892 AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS See notes to consolidated financial statements. Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Net (loss) income (3,399,558) 854,135 1,615,892 Other comprehensive (loss) income: Total other comprehensive (loss) income (8,946) (33,228) 8,281 Total comprehensive (loss) income (3,408,504) 820,907 1,624,173 Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest 2,923 1,746 50,829 Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to AmerisourceBergen Corporation (3,405,581) 822,653 1,675,002 Foreign currency translation adjustments (7,872) (32,957) (36,904) Loss on consolidation of equity investments 45,941 Other, net (1,074) (271) (756) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES See notes to consolidated financial statements. Table of Contents (in thousands, except per share data) September 30, 2017 2,806 4,517,635 2,395,218 (95,850) (4,755,348) 2,064,461 September 30, 2018 2,836 4,715,473 3,720,582 (79,253) (5,426,814) 117,137 3,049,961 September 30, 2019 2,853 4,850,142 4,235,491 (111,965) (6,097,604) 114,289 2,993,206 September 30, 2020 2,878 5,081,776 518,335 (108,830) (6,513,083) 179,288 (839,636) Consolidation of variable interest entity 167,966 167,966 Net income (loss) 1,658,405 (42,513) 1,615,892 Other comprehensive income (loss) 16,597 (8,316) 8,281 Cash dividends, 1.52 per share (333,041) (333,041) Exercises of stock options 27 138,429 138,456 Share-based compensation expense 62,316 62,316 Common stock purchases for employee stock purchase Purchases of common stock (663,220) (663,220) Employee tax withholdings related to restricted share Other 3 (2,566) (2,563) Adoption of ASC 606 (Note 1) Net income (loss) 855,365 (1,230) 854,135 Other comprehensive loss (32,712) (516) (33,228) Cash dividends, 1.60 per share (338,974) (338,974) Exercises of stock options 15 76,219 76,234 Share-based compensation expense 58,874 58,874 Purchases of common stock (664,803) (664,803) Employee tax withholdings related to restricted share Other 2 (424) (422) Adoption of ASC 842, net of tax (Note 1) Net (loss) income (3,408,716) 9,158 (3,399,558) Other comprehensive income (loss) 3,135 (12,081) (8,946) Cash dividends, 1.66 per share (343,578) (343,578) Exercises of stock options 21 159,512 159,533 Share-based compensation expense 74,411 74,411 Purchases of common stock (405,692) (405,692) Profarma retail equity offering (1,567) 67,922 66,355 Employee tax withholdings related to restricted share Other 4 (722) (718) plan (341) (341) vesting (8,246) (8,246) vesting (5,987) (5,987) vesting (9,787) (9,787) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES See notes to consolidated financial statements. (1,482) (1,102) (2,584) 35,138 35,138 Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Comprehensive Accumulated Non-controlling Interest Total Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2,207,040 2,344,023 1,411,388 INVESTING ACTIVITIES NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (379,871) (375,832) (1,111,114) FINANCING ACTIVITIES NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (603,617) (1,086,513) (242,873) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,223,552 881,678 57,401 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,374,194 2,492,516 2,435,115 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 4,597,746 3,374,194 2,492,516 Net (loss) income (3,399,558) 854,135 1,615,892 Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net cash provided by operating activities: Capital expenditures (369,677) (310,222) (336,411) Cost of acquired companies, net of cash acquired (63,951) (785,299) Cost of equity investments (56,080) Proceeds on sale of property and equipment 36,364 1,295 8,100 Other, net 9,522 (2,954) 2,496 Senior notes and other loan borrowings 599,480 506,948 1,314,430 Senior notes and other loan repayments (598,452) (510,863) (681,001) Borrowings under revolving and securitization credit facilities 116,946 640,126 25,129,704 Repayments under revolving and securitization credit facilities (149,980) (769,284) (25,127,438) Payment of premium on early retirement of debt (21,448) (22,348) Purchases of common stock (420,449) (674,031) (639,235) Exercises of stock options 159,533 76,234 138,456 Cash dividends on common stock (343,578) (338,974) (333,041) Profarma retail equity offering 66,355 Tax withholdings related to restricted share vesting (9,787) (5,987) (8,246) Other (2,237) (10,682) (14,154) Depreciation, including amounts charged to cost of goods sold 290,744 321,102 318,483 Amortization, including amounts charged to interest expense 117,269 176,410 191,626 Provision for doubtful accounts 11,912 25,196 16,660 (Benefit) provision for deferred income taxes (1,544,971) 28,537 (795,524) Share-based compensation expense 74,411 58,874 62,316 LIFO expense (credit) 7,422 (22,544) 67,324 Impairment of PharMEDium assets 361,652 570,000 Gain on sale of an equity investment (13,692) Goodwill impairment 59,684 Impairment of non-customer note receivable 30,000 Loss on consolidation of equity investments 42,328 Loss on early retirement of debt 22,175 23,766 Other, net (3,044) (23,193) (19,078) Changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the effects of acquisitions and divestitures: Accounts receivable (1,628,991) (1,241,890) (657,770) Inventories (1,621,143) (167,990) (4,923) Income tax receivable (482,569) (2,834) 4,566 Prepaid expenses and other assets 28,050 (3,899) (61,777) Accounts payable 3,300,832 1,561,048 859,036 Income taxes payable (3,289) (13,353) 209,899 Accrued expenses 524,021 239,688 (537,905) Accrued litigation liability 6,198,943 Other liabilities (46,826) (1,572) (13,215) AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW See notes to consolidated financial statements. Table of Contents Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies controlling financial interest (the "Company"), is one of the largest global pharmaceutical sourcing and distribution services companies, helping both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers improve patient access to products and enhance patient care. The Company delivers innovative programs and services designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply chain in both human and animal health. and for the periods indicated. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual amounts could differ from these estimated amounts due to uncertainties inherent in such estimates. Management periodically evaluates estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements for continued reasonableness. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-period amounts in order to conform to the current year presentation. connection with the mitigation and containment procedures recommended by the WHO and imposed by federal, state, and local governmental authorities, the Company implemented measures designed to keep its employees safe and address business continuity issues at its distribution centers and other locations. The Company continues to evaluate and plan for the potential effects of a prolonged disruption and the related impacts on its revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. These items include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of its customers and the realization of accounts receivable, decreased availability and demand for its products and services, and delays related to current and future projects. While the Company's operational and financial performance may be significantly impacted by COVID-19, it is not possible for the Company to predict the duration or magnitude of the outbreak and whether it could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Risk Factor - We face risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and the continued spread of COVID-19 is adversely affecting our business. the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 605 - "Revenue Recognition" and most industry-specific guidance throughout the Codification. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard's core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ("ASU 2016-08"), which clarified the implementation guidance for principal versus agent considerations in ASU 2014-09. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) - Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing" ("ASU 2016-10"), which amended the guidance in ASU 2014-09 related to identifying performance obligations and accounting for licenses of intellectual property. The Company was required to adopt ASU 2016-08 and ASU 2016-10 with ASU 2014-09, collectively ASC 606. immaterial impact on the Company's October 1, 2018 retained earnings and did not and will not have a material impact on the Company's revenues, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company did not record any material contract assets, contract liabilities, or deferred contract costs in its Consolidated Balance Sheet upon adoption. or less. Additionally, the Company elected the practical expedients to not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less, (ii) contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services Basis of Presentation Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements AmerisourceBergen Corporation and its subsidiaries, including less-than-wholly-owned subsidiaries in which AmerisourceBergen Corporation has a The accompanying financial statements present the consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company as of the dates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") requires management to make In March 2020, the World Health Organization ("WHO") declared a global pandemic attributable to the outbreak and continued spread of COVID-19. In In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" ("ASU 2014-09"). ASU 2014-09 supersedes In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) - Principal versus Agent Considerations" The Company adopted ASC 606 as of October 1, 2018 on a modified retrospective basis for all open contracts as of October 1, 2018. The adoption had an The Company elected the practical expedient to expense costs to obtain a contract when incurred when the amortization period would have been one year AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS September 30, 2020 Table of Contents performed, and (iii) for contracts for which the variable consideration is allocated entirely to a wholly unsatisfied performance obligation or to a wholly unsatisfied promise to transfer a distinct good or service that forms part of a single performance obligation. transparency and comparability across organizations by requiring lease assets and lease liabilities to be recognized on the balance sheet as well as key information to be disclosed regarding lease arrangements. ASU 2016-02 was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. package of practical expedients provided within the amended guidance, which eliminated the requirements to reassess lease identification, lease classification, and initial direct costs for leases that commenced before the effective date. The Company also elected to combine lease and non-lease components and to exclude short-term leases from its consolidated balance sheets. The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient in determining the lease term. million, and a 35.1 million, net of tax of 9.6 million, cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. The Company's lease liabilities were based on the present value of the remaining minimum lease commitments using the Company's incremental borrowing rates as of October 1, 2019, and the Company's ROU assets were based upon the operating lease liabilities adjusted for prepaid and deferred rents. The cumulative adjustment to retained earnings was primarily the result of derecognizing assets of 266.0 million in Property and Equipment, Net and 324.8 million of financing obligations in Long-Term Financing Obligation and Accrued Expenses and Other, all of which was associated with leased assets where the Company was deemed the owner of the leased assets for accounting purposes. The Company finalized the impact that the amended lease guidance had on its systems, processes, and internal controls. The adoption of ASC 842 did not and will not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. Instruments" ("ASU 2016-13"). ASU 2016-13 requires financial assets measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amounts. An entity must use judgment in determining the relevant information and estimation methods that are appropriate in its circumstances. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, and a modified retrospective approach is required, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. The Company does not expect the adoption of this new accounting guidance to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ASU 2019-12 removes certain exceptions to the general principles in ASC 740 in order to reduce the cost and complexity of its application. ASU 2019-12 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with certain amendments applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, and others prospectively. Early adoption of this guidance is permitted, including the adoption in any interim period for public companies for periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting guidance. results of operations, or cash flows upon their adoption. goodwill. The results of operations of the acquired businesses are included in the Company's operating results from the dates of acquisition. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Business Combinations For the Company's revenue recognition policy, refer to the "Revenue Recognition" section of Note 1. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" ("ASU 2016-02" or "ASC 842"). ASU 2016-02 aims to increase The Company adopted ASC 842 as of October 1, 2019 and adopted it using the modified retrospective approach. The Company elected the transition In connection with the adoption of ASC 842, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of 562.1 million, right-of-use ("ROU") assets of 526.3 For the Company's lease policy, refer to the "Leases" section of Note 1. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes" ("ASU 2019-12"). As of September 30, 2020, there were no other recently issued accounting standards that may have a material impact on the Company's financial position, The assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the acquired business are recorded at fair value, with the residual of the purchase price recorded as Table of Contents equivalents approximates fair value. The Company sells its inventories to a large number of customers in the healthcare industry that include institutional and retail healthcare providers. Institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate care pharmacies and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, and physician offices. Retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. The financial condition of the Company's customers can be affected by changes in government reimbursement policies as well as by other economic pressures in the healthcare industry. customer in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. ("WBA"), accounted for approximately 33% of revenue and represented approximately 47% of accounts receivable, net of incentives, as of September 30, 2020. Express Scripts, Inc., the Company's second largest customer in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, accounted for approximately 12% of revenue and represented approximately 7% of accounts receivable as of September 30, 2020. The Company generally does not require collateral for trade receivables. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, the Company considers a combination of factors, such as the aging of trade receivables, industry trends, and its customers' financial strength, credit standing, and payment and default history. Changes in these factors, among others, may lead to adjustments in the Company's allowance for doubtful accounts. The calculation of the required allowance requires judgment by Company management as to the impact of those and other factors on the ultimate realization of its trade receivables. Each of the Company's business units performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and maintains reserves for probable bad debt losses based upon historical experience and for specific credit problems when they arise. There were no significant changes to this process during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, and bad debt expense was computed in a consistent manner during these periods. provided on such deposits. These deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions with reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk. The Company seeks to mitigate such risks by monitoring the risk profiles of these counterparties. The Company also seeks to mitigate risk by monitoring the investment strategy of money market accounts in which it is invested, which are classified as cash equivalents. subpoenas, government investigations, stockholder demands, and other disputes, including antitrust, commercial, product liability, intellectual property, regulatory, employment discrimination, and other matters. Significant damages or penalties may be sought from the Company in some matters, and some matters may require years for the Company to resolve. The Company records a liability when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The Company also performs an assessment of the materiality of loss contingencies where a loss is either not probable or it is reasonably possible that a loss could be incurred in excess of amounts accrued. If a loss or an additional loss has at least a reasonable possibility of occurring and the impact on the financial statements would be material, the Company provides disclosure of the loss contingency in the notes to its financial statements. The Company reviews all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or the range of the loss can be made. Among the loss contingencies that the Company considered in accordance with the foregoing in connection with the preparation of the accompanying financial statements were the opioid matters described in Note 14. receipt of cash and recorded as a reduction to cost of goods sold because they represent a recovery of amounts historically paid to manufacturers to originally acquire the pharmaceuticals that were the subject of the antitrust litigation settlements (see Note 15). effectiveness of hedging relationships. The Company's policy prohibits it from entering into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. Cash Equivalents Concentrations of Credit Risk and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Contingencies Derivative Financial Instruments The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying value of cash The Company's trade accounts receivables are exposed to credit risk. Revenue from the various agreements and arrangements with the Company's largest The Company maintains cash and cash equivalents with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance Loss Contingencies: In the ordinary course of its business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, government Gain Contingencies: The Company records gain contingencies when they are realized. Gains from antitrust litigation settlements are realized upon the The Company records all derivative financial instruments on the balance sheet at fair value and complies with established criteria for designation and Table of Contents using the current exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, while revenues and expenses are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss within Stockholders' Equity. Goodwill arises from acquisitions or consolidations of specific operating companies and is assigned to the reporting unit in which a particular operating company resides. The Company identifies its reporting units based upon the Company's management reporting structure, beginning with its operating segments. The Company aggregates two or more components within an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics. The Company evaluates whether the components within its operating segments have similar economic characteristics, which include the similarity of long-term gross margins, the nature of the components' products, services, and production processes, the types of customers and the methods by which products or services are delivered to customers, and the components' regulatory environment. The Company's reporting units include Pharmaceutical Distribution Services, Profarma Distribuidora de Produtos Farmac uticos S.A. ("Profarma"), AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services ("ABCS"), World Courier, and MWI Animal Health ("MWI"). impairment at least annually. For the purpose of these impairment tests, the Company can elect to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair values of its reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than the respective carrying values of those reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. Such qualitative factors can include, among others, industry and market conditions, overall financial performance, and relevant entity-specific events. If the Company concludes based on its qualitative assessment that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, it performs a quantitative analysis. The Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite- lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, with the exception of its testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles in the MWI and Profarma reporting units. The Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, with the exception of the its testing of goodwill in the Profarma reporting unit. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company elected to bypass performing the qualitative assessment and went directly to performing its annual quantitative assessments of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is required, and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, the difference between the carrying value and the fair value is recorded as an impairment loss, the amount of which may not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. of the Profarma reporting unit, the fair value of which is based upon its publicly-traded stock price, plus an estimated control premium. The income-based approach relies on a discounted cash flow analysis, which considers forecasted cash flows discounted at an appropriate discount rate, to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. The Company generally believes that market participants would use a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the fair value of the Company's reporting units in a sale transaction. The annual goodwill impairment test requires the Company to make a number of assumptions and estimates concerning future levels of revenue growth, operating margins, depreciation, amortization, capital expenditures, and working capital requirements, which are based upon the Company's long-range plan. The discount rate is an estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by a market participant whose weighted average cost of capital includes both debt and equity, including a risk premium. While the Company uses the best available information to prepare its cash flows and discount rate assumptions, actual future cash flows and or market conditions could differ significantly resulting in future impairment charges related to recorded goodwill balances. While there are always changes in assumptions to reflect changing business and market conditions, the Company's overall methodology and the population of assumptions used have remained unchanged. fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. The Company estimates the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief from royalty method. The Company believes the relief from royalty method is a widely used valuation technique for such assets. The fair value derived from the relief from royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such indefinite-lived trademarks and trade names and not having to pay a royalty for their use. Foreign Currency Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, such as certain trademarks and trade names, are not amortized rather, they are tested for The quantitative goodwill impairment test requires us to compare the carrying value of the reporting unit's net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. When performing a quantitative impairment assessment, the Company utilizes an income-based approach to value its reporting units, with the exception The quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (certain trademarks and trade names) consists of a comparison of the When the functional currency of the Company's foreign operations is the applicable local currency, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars Table of Contents years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018. The Company recorded a goodwill impairment of 59.7 million in its Profarma reporting unit in connection with its fiscal 2018 annual impairment test. No goodwill impairments were recorded in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. No indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments were recorded in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018. recoverability assessment of its long-lived assets when impairment indicators are present. Company voluntarily suspended production activities in December 2017 at its largest compounding facility located in Memphis, Tennessee pending execution of certain remedial measures. the Company performed a recoverability assessment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets and recorded a 570.0 million impairment loss in the quarter ended March 31, 2019 for the amount that the carrying value of the PharMEDium asset group exceeded its fair value. Prior to the impairment, the carrying value of the asset group was 792 million. The fair value of the asset group was 222 million as of March 31, 2019. The PharMEDium asset group was included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment. Significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of PharMEDium's asset group included (i) a 15% discount rate, which contemplated a higher risk at PharMEDium (ii) the period in which PharMEDium will resume production at or near capacity and (iii) the estimated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) margins when considering the likelihood of higher operating and compliance costs. The Company believed that its fair value assumptions were representative of market participant assumptions however, the forecasted cash flows used to estimate fair value and measure the related impairment were inherently uncertain and included assumptions that differed from actual results in future periods (see below). This represents a Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurement. The Company allocated 522.1 million of the impairment to finite-lived intangibles ( 420.8 million of customer relationships, 79.9 million of a trade name, and 21.4 million of software technology) and 47.9 million of the impairment to property and equipment. PharMEDium s long-lived assets were recoverable as of September 30, 2019. regulatory matters, ongoing operational challenges, and lower-than-expected operating results, the Company updated its recoverability assessment of PharMEDium s long-lived assets as of December 31, 2019. The recoverability assessment was based upon comparing PharMEDium's forecasted undiscounted cash flows to the carrying value of its asset group. Using forecasted undiscounted cash flows that were based on the weighted average of multiple strategic alternatives, the Company concluded that the carrying value of the PharMEDium long-lived asset group was not recoverable as of December 31, 2019. The forecasted undiscounted cash flows as of December 31, 2019 were lower than the forecasted undiscounted cash flows as of September 30, 2019 due to a change in weighting of multiple strategic alternatives and lower operating results in the three months ended December 31, 2019 compared to expectations. The Company then performed an impairment test by comparing the PharMEDium asset group's fair value of 145 million to its carrying value, which resulted in a 138.0 million impairment loss in the three months ended December 31, 2019. Significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of PharMEDium's asset group included (i) a 17% discount rate, which contemplated a higher risk at PharMEDium (ii) the period in which PharMEDium will resume production at or near capacity and (iii) the estimated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) margins when considering the likelihood of higher operating and compliance costs. The Company believed that its fair value assumptions were representative of market participant assumptions however, the forecasted cash flows used to estimate fair value and measure the related impairment were inherently uncertain and included assumptions that differed from actual results in future periods (see below). This represented a Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurement. The Company allocated 123.2 million of the impairment to finite-lived intangibles, 11.6 million of the impairment to property and equipment, and 3.2 million to ROU assets. and administrative operations related to this business in fiscal 2020. The decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium business was due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, ongoing operational, regulatory, and commercial challenges, such as PharMEDium's decision in January 2020 to suspend production at the compounding facility in New Jersey pending facility upgrades related to the air handling and filtration systems. In connection with the decision to exit the PharMEDium business, the Company recorded an impairment of PharMEDium's assets of 223.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020, which included impairments of the remaining finite-lived intangible assets and the majority of the remaining tangible assets. The Company completed its required annual impairment tests relating to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of the fiscal Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company performs a After U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") inspections of PharMEDium Healthcare Holdings, Inc.'s ("PharMEDium") compounding facilities, the As a result of the suspension of production activities at PharMEDium's compounding facility located in Memphis, Tennessee and the regulatory matters, The Company updated its recoverability assessment of PharMEDium's long-lived assets as of September 30, 2019. The Company concluded that As a result of the continued suspension of the production activities at PharMEDium's compounding facility located in Memphis, Tennessee, certain In January 2020, the Company decided to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business, and, as a result, the Company ceased all commercial Table of Contents consequences of temporary differences that currently exist between tax bases and financial reporting bases of the Company's assets and liabilities (commonly known as the asset and liability method). In assessing the need to establish a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. examination by the taxing authorities, including settlements with tax authorities or resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based upon the technical merits of the position. Tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions that have met the recognition criteria are measured and recorded based upon the highest probable outcome that is more than 50% likely to be realized after full disclosure and resolution of a tax examination. 2019, respectively, has been determined using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method. If the Company had used the first-in, first-out method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have been approximately 1,519.2 million and 1,511.8 million higher than the amounts reported as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company recorded LIFO expense of 7.4 million and 67.3 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2018, respectively, and a LIFO credit of 22.5 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. The annual LIFO provision is affected by manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences, changes in inventory quantities, and product mix, many of which are difficult to predict. Changes to any of the above factors can have a material impact to the Company's annual LIFO provision. an investment. This evaluation is made as of the date on which the Company makes its initial investment, and subsequent evaluations are made if the structure of the investment changes. If it has determined that an investment is a variable interest entity ("VIE"), the Company evaluates whether the VIE is required to be consolidated. When the Company holds rights that give it the power to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance, combined with the obligation to absorb an entity's losses and the right to receive benefits, the Company consolidates a VIE. If it is determined that an investment is not a VIE, the Company then evaluates its investments under the voting interest model and generally consolidates investments in which it holds an ownership interest of greater than 50%. When the Company consolidates less-than-wholly-owned subsidiaries, it presents its noncontrolling interest in its consolidated financial statements. For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value, the Company uses the fair value measurement alternative and measures the securities at cost less impairment, if any, including adjustments for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer. For investments in which the Company can exercise significant influence but does not control, it uses the equity method of accounting. The Company's share of earnings and losses is recorded in Other (Income) Loss in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company monitors its investments for impairment by considering factors such as the operating performance of the investment and current economic and market conditions. The Company is often involved in the construction of its facilities. Prior to October 1, 2019, in certain cases, the Company made payments for certain structural components included in the lessor's construction of the leased assets, which resulted in the Company being deemed the owner of the leased assets for accounting purposes. As a result, regardless of the significance of the payments, ASC 840, Leases, defined those payments as automatic indicators of ownership and required the Company to capitalize the lessor's total project cost with a corresponding financing obligation. Upon completion of the lessor's project, the Company performed a sale-leaseback analysis pursuant to ASC 840 to determine if these assets and the related financing obligations could be derecognized from the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the Company was deemed to have had "continuing involvement," the leased assets and the related financing obligations remained on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet and were amortized over the life of the assets and the lease term, respectively. All other leases were considered operating leases in accordance with ASC 840. Assets subject to an operating lease and the related lease payments were not recorded on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. Rent expense was recognized on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term and was recorded in Distribution, Selling, and Administrative in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. Income Taxes Inventories Investments The Company accounts for income taxes using a method that requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for expected future tax The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost for approximately 70% and 75% of the Company's inventories as of September 30, 2020 and The Company first evaluates its investments in accordance with the variable interest model to determine whether it has a controlling financial interest in Table of Contents contains a lease based on the facts and circumstances present. Leases are classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement. At the lease commencement date, operating and finance lease liabilities and their corresponding ROU assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected lease term. The interest rate implicit in lease contracts is typically not readily determinable and, as such, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease liabilities, which is the rate incurred to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term in a similar economic environment. Certain adjustments to the ROU asset may be required for items such as incentives received. The Company does not recognize on the balance sheet leases with terms of one year or less. The Company has operating leases that are primarily comprised of buildings, office equipment, distribution center equipment, and vehicles. Some of the Company's leases include options to extend or early terminate the lease, which are included in the lease term when it is reasonably certain to exercise and there is a significant economic incentive to exercise that option. Certain lease agreements contain provisions for future rent increases. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise fixed payments. The Company combines lease and non-lease components as a single component. Operating lease cost is recognized over the expected lease term on a straight-line basis and is recorded in Distribution, Selling, and Administrative in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of maintenance, taxes, and other payments based on usage, are recognized when the expense is incurred. The Company's leases do not contain residual value guarantees. discounts, and, as a result, they are recognized within cost of goods sold upon the sale of the related inventory. to 40 years for buildings and improvements and from 3 to 10 years for machinery, equipment, and other. The costs of repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. the application development stage. Costs that are associated with preliminary stage activities, training, maintenance, and all other post-implementation stage activities are expensed as they are incurred. Software development costs are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, which range from 3 to 10 years. commercialization services, which include clinical trial support, post-approval and commercialization support, and global specialty transportation and logistics for the biopharmaceutical industry. See Note 16 for the Company's disaggregated revenue. further obligation to provide services related to such products. Service revenue is recognized over the period that services are provided to the customer. The Company is generally the principal in a transaction therefore, revenue is primarily recorded on a gross basis. When the Company is the principal in a transaction, it has determined that it controls the ability to direct the use of the product or service prior to the transfer to a customer, it is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the product or service to its customer, it has discretion in establishing pricing, and it controls the relationship with the customer. Revenue is recognized at the amount of consideration expected to be received. For the distribution business, revenue is primarily generated from a contract related to a confirmed purchase order with a customer in a distribution arrangement and is net of estimated sales returns and allowances, other customer incentives, and sales tax. suppliers for full credit. The Company records an accrual for estimated customer sales returns at the time of sale to the customer based upon historical return trends. As of September 30, 2020 and 2019, the Company's accrual for estimated customer sales returns was 1,344.7 million and 1,147.5 million, respectively. Manufacturer Incentives Property and Equipment Revenue Recognition Subsequent to the adoption of ASC 842 on October 1, 2019, at the inception of an arrangement, the Company determines whether the arrangement is or The Company considers fees and other incentives received from its suppliers relating to the purchase or distribution of inventory to represent product Property and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from 3 The Company capitalizes project costs relating to computer software developed or obtained for internal use when the activities related to the project reach The Company's revenues are primarily generated from the distribution of pharmaceutical products. The Company also generates revenues from global The Company recognizes revenue related to the distribution of products at a point in time when title and control transfers to customers and there is no The Company's customer sales return policy generally allows customers to return products only if the products can be resold at full value or returned to Table of Contents The Company accounts for the compensation cost of all share-based payments at fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of option grants using a binomial option pricing model. The fair value of restricted stock units and performance stock units is based upon the grant date market price of the Company s common stock. Share-based compensation expense is recognized over the requisite service period within Distribution, Selling, and Administrative in the Consolidated Statements of Operations to correspond with the same line item as the cash compensation paid to employees. Compensation expense associated with nonvested performance stock units is dependent upon the Company's periodic assessment of the probability of the targets being achieved and its estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately be issued. The income tax effects of awards are recognized when the awards vest or are settled and are recognized in Income Tax Expense in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations and in cash flows from operations in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 619.7 million, and 590.8 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, are included in Distribution, Selling, and Administrative in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. taken against payments otherwise due to them from the Company. These reserve estimates are established based upon the judgment of Company management after carefully considering the status of current outstanding claims, historical experience with the suppliers, the specific incentive programs, and any other pertinent information available to the Company. The Company evaluates the amounts due from its suppliers on a continual basis and adjusts the reserve estimates when appropriate based upon changes in factual circumstances. The ultimate outcome of any outstanding claim may be different than the Company's estimate. Note 2. Acquisitions and Investments In December 2017, the Company acquired Northeast Veterinary Supply Company ("NEVSCO") for 70.0 million. NEVSCO was an independent, regional distributor of veterinary pharmaceuticals and medical supplies serving primarily the northeast region of the United States and strengthens MWI Animal Health's ("MWI") support of independent veterinary practices and provides even greater value and care to current and future animal health customers. NEVSCO is included within the MWI operating segment. The purchase price was allocated to the underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their fair values on the date of the acquisition. The purchase price exceeded the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired by 30.4 million, which was allocated to goodwill. The fair value of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable and accrued expenses acquired was 8.5 million, 6.7 million, and 2.9 million, respectively. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired of 29.8 million primarily consisted of customer relationships, which the Company is amortizing over its estimated useful life of 15 years. Goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the acquisition are deductible for income tax purposes. In January 2018, the Company acquired H.D. Smith Holding Company ("H.D. Smith") for 815.0 million. The Company funded the acquisition through the issuance of new long-term debt (see Note 7). H.D. Smith was the largest independent pharmaceutical wholesaler in the United States and provides full-line distribution of brand, generic, and specialty drugs, as well as high-value services and solutions for manufacturers and healthcare providers. H.D. Smith's customers included retail pharmacies, specialty pharmacies, long-term care facilities, institutional hospital systems, and independent physicians and clinics. The acquisition strengthens the Company's core business, expands and enhances its strategic scale in pharmaceutical distribution, and expands the Company's support for independent community pharmacies. H.D. Smith has been integrated into the Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment. The purchase price was allocated to the underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their fair values on the date of acquisition. The purchase price exceeded the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired by Share-Based Compensation Shipping and Handling Costs Supplier Reserves H.D. Smith Shipping and handling costs include all costs to warehouse, pick, pack, and deliver inventory to customers. These costs, which were 665.3 million, The Company establishes reserves against amounts due from its suppliers relating to various price and rebate incentives, including deductions or billings Table of Contents 499.9 million, which was allocated to goodwill. The fair value of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable and accrued expenses acquired was 163.1 million, 350.7 million, and 366.1 million, respectively. The fair value of the intangible assets acquired of 167.8 million consisted of customer relationships of 156.6 million and a tradename of 11.2 million. The Company is amortizing the fair value of the customer relationships and the tradename over their estimated useful lives of 12 years and 2 years, respectively. The Company established a deferred tax liability of 60.6 million primarily in connection with the intangible assets acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the acquisition are not deductible for income tax purposes. As of September 30, 2017, the Company held a noncontrolling ownership interest in Profarma, a leading pharmaceutical wholesaler in Brazil, and an ownership interest in a joint venture with Profarma to provide specialty distribution and services to the Brazilian marketplace (the "specialty joint venture"). The Company had accounted for these interests as equity method investments, which were reported in Other Assets on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. In January 2018, the Company invested an additional 62.5 million in Profarma and an additional 15.6 million in the specialty joint venture to increase its ownership interests to 38.2% and 64.5%, respectively. In connection with the additional investment in Profarma, the Company received substantial governance rights, thereby requiring it to begin consolidating the operating results of Profarma as of March 31, 2018 (see Note 3). The Company also began to consolidate the operating results of the specialty joint venture as of March 31, 2018 due to its majority ownership interest. In September 2018, the Company made an additional investment of 23.6 million in the specialty joint venture to increase its ownership interest to 89.9%. Profarma and the specialty joint venture are included within the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment and Other, respectively. The fair value of Profarma, including the noncontrolling interest, was determined based upon an agreed-upon stock price and was allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities consolidated based upon their fair values at the time of the January 2018 investment. The fair value of Profarma upon obtaining control exceeded the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets consolidated by 142.0 million, which was allocated to goodwill. The fair value of accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses was 160.1 million, 190.5 million, and 167.7 million, respectively. The Company consolidated short-term debt and long-term debt of 209.9 million and 12.4 million, respectively, cash of 150.8 million, and recorded a noncontrolling interest of 168.0 million. The estimated fair value of the intangible assets consolidated of 84.6 million consisted of customer relationships of 25.9 million and a tradename of 58.7 million. The Company is amortizing the customer relationships over its estimated useful life of 15 years and the tradenames over their estimated useful lives of between 15 years and 25 years. The Company established a deferred tax liability of 50.1 million primarily in connection with the intangible assets that were recognized. Goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the consolidation are not deductible for income tax purposes. The fair value of the specialty joint venture was determined based upon the cost of the incremental ownership percentage acquired from the January 2018 investment and was allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities consolidated based upon their fair values at the time of the January 2018 investment. The fair value of the specialty joint venture exceeded the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets consolidated by 3.5 million, which was allocated to goodwill. The fair value of accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses was 65.0 million, 29.1 million, and 54.3 million, respectively. The Company consolidated short-term debt and cash of 32.7 million and 28.9 million, respectively. The estimated fair value of the intangible assets consolidated of 4.6 million is being amortized over its estimated useful life of 15 years. Goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the consolidation are not deductible for income tax purposes. In connection with the incremental January 2018 Brazil investments, the Company adjusted the carrying values of its previously held equity interests in Profarma and the specialty joint venture to equal their fair values, which were determined to be 103.1 million and 31.2 million, respectively. These represent Level 2 nonrecurring fair value measurements. The adjustments resulted in a pretax loss of 42.3 million in fiscal 2018 and were comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss of 45.9 million, a 12.4 million gain on the remeasurement of Profarma's previously held equity interest, and an 8.8 million loss on the remeasurement of the specialty joint venture's previously held equity interest. Profarma and Specialty Joint Venture Table of Contents Note 3. Variable Interest Entity obtained substantial governance rights, allowing it to direct the activities that significantly impact Profarma s economic performance. As such, the Company consolidated the operating results of Profarma in its consolidated financial statements as of and for the periods ended September 30, 2020 and September 30, 2019. The Company is not obligated to provide future financial support to Profarma. Profarma's assets can only be used to settle its obligations, and its creditors do not have recourse to the general credit of the Company. ownership interest in the retail business from 100% to 53.5%. Profarma continues to consolidate the operating results of the retail business in its consolidated financial statements. Note 4. Property and Equipment (in thousands) Property and equipment, at cost: (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents 96,983 9,431 Accounts receivables, net 120,486 154,491 Inventories 144,059 185,602 Prepaid expenses and other 52,885 64,119 Property and equipment, net 23,584 30,961 Goodwill 82,309 82,309 Other intangible assets 73,543 74,429 Other long-term assets 53,513 9,169 Accounts payable 141,147 165,053 Accrued expenses and other 34,415 49,191 Short-term debt 98,399 106,439 Long-term debt 44,144 60,973 Deferred income taxes 38,854 42,371 Other long-term liabilities 43,413 5,303 Land 39,572 44,142 Buildings and improvements 586,551 942,129 Machinery, equipment, and other 2,618,354 2,362,869 Less accumulated depreciation (1,759,669) (1,578,624) Total property and equipment 3,244,477 3,349,140 Property and equipment, net 1,484,808 1,770,516 Total assets 647,362 610,511 Total liabilities 400,372 429,330 Profarma Retail Equity Offering As discussed in Note 2, the Company made an additional investment in Profarma in January 2018. In connection with this investment, the Company The following assets and liabilities of Profarma are included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet: In August 2020, Profarma received 66.4 million through an equity offering of its retail business. The equity offering decreased Profarma's voting The following table summarizes the Company's property and equipment balances for the periods indicated: September 30, September 30, September 30, September 30, Table of Contents Note 5. Income Taxes indicated: The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security ("CARES") Act became law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act was a response to the market volatility and instability resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and included provisions to support businesses in the form of loans, grants, and tax changes, among other types of relief that were not previously available under the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "2017 Tax Act"). As it relates to the Company, the CARES Act provided relief through adjustments to net operating loss rules and the acceleration of available refunds for alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Domestic (5,961,269) 336,150 704,935 Foreign 667,438 630,956 472,488 Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Current (benefit) provision: Deferred (benefit) provision: (Benefit) provision for income taxes (1,894,273) 112,971 (438,469) Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2018 Statutory U.S. federal income tax rate 21.0% 21.0% 24.5% State and local income tax rate, net of federal tax benefit (0.5) 2.4 (0.1) Foreign tax rate differential 1.0 (6.7) (6.2) Litigation settlements and accruals (see Note 14) (6.2) 0.1 (6.3) U.S. Tax reform (3.6) (52.0) PharMEDium worthless stock deduction 12.4 Swiss Tax reform 6.8 CARES Act 1.2 Goodwill impairment (see Note 1) 1.7 Capital gain on distribution 3.6 Other 0.1 (1.5) (2.4) Effective income tax rate 35.8% 11.7% (37.2)% Total (5,293,831) 967,106 1,177,423 Federal (473,751) (12,801) 247,755 State and local 30,236 15,246 39,328 Foreign 94,213 81,989 69,972 Federal (914,613) 61,819 (828,023) State and local (264,409) (31,086) 33,887 Foreign (365,949) (2,196) (1,388) The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act Total current (benefit) provision (349,302) 84,434 357,055 Total deferred (benefit) provision (1,544,971) 28,537 (795,524) The following table summarizes the Company's (loss) income before income taxes for the periods indicated: The components of the Company's consolidated income tax (benefit) expense are summarized in the following table for the periods indicated: A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to the Company's consolidated effective income tax rate is as follows for the periods Table of Contents As discussed in Note 1, the Company decided in January 2020 to shut down and permanently exit the PharMEDium Healthcare Holdings LLC ("PharMEDium") compounding business. Following the decision to exit PharMEDium and in connection with the permanent shutdown of this business, PharMEDium underwent a voluntary change in tax status, which resulted in the Company recognizing a worthless stock ordinary income tax deduction of approximately 2.4 billion and, in turn, yielded a tax benefit of approximately 655 million. The estimated tax benefit is higher than it would have been prior to the enactment of the CARES Act as the net operating losses resulting from the worthless stock deduction can now be carried back to years with higher statutory tax rates. In the aggregate, the Company recognized discrete tax benefits of 720.6 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. resulting from the recognition of the above discrete tax benefits. retroactively effective as of January 1, 2020. A key provision of the Swiss federal tax reforms was the elimination of cantonal preferential tax regimes, which had the effect of increasing overall tax rates on Swiss income. To phase in the tax rate increase, the canton of Bern has granted a tax ruling to the Company that effectively reduces the Company's Swiss tax rate for a period of 10 years. part by a 221.7 million valuation allowance for amounts that it is more likely than not will not be realized. The net 360.7 million deferred tax asset is expected to be realized over the next 10 years resulting in an increase in the Company s consolidated effective tax rates. prescription opioid pain medications. The Company is currently in advanced discussions, which are ongoing, with the states and various plaintiff's representatives that would be necessary to reach a global settlement of the Multidistrict Litigation ("MDL") and related state-court litigation brought by certain state and local governmental entities to be paid over 18 years assuming all parties participate (see Note 14). As a result, the Company recognized a deferred tax benefit of 1.1 billion, which reflects an unrecognized tax benefit of 359.5 million On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was signed into law. The 2017 Tax Act included a broad range of tax reform provisions affecting businesses, including lower corporate tax rates, changes in business deductions, and new international tax provisions. In response to the 2017 Tax Act, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued guidance regarding the accounting for income taxes associated with the 2017 Tax Act to allow companies to record provisional amounts during a one-year measurement period. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, the Company recognized income tax benefits of 612.6 million on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations related to effects of the 2017 Tax Act, which consisted of a deferred income tax benefit of 897.6 million as a result of applying a lower U.S. federal income tax rate to the Company's net deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and a one-time transition tax on historical foreign earnings and profits. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, the Company initially recorded a current U.S. income tax expense of 285.0 million on historical foreign earnings and profits through December 31, 2017. The Company completed the accounting for the effects of the 2017 Tax Act in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018 and recognized an income tax benefit of 37.0 million related to a decrease in its foreign earnings and profits through December 31, 2017 (the "transition tax"). The Company expects to pay 182.6 million related to the transition tax, which is net of overpayments and tax credits, over a six-year period commencing in January 2021. There were no adjustments recorded to deferred income taxes related to the 2017 Tax Act during the one-year measurement period. assessment of the impact of the 2017 Tax Act, the Company reevaluated its position and determined that it was no longer reinvested with respect to foreign subsidiaries whose undistributed earnings are able to be repatriated with minimal to no additional tax impact. Cumulative undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries were 3 PharMEDium Swiss Tax Reform Opioid Legal Accrual U.S. Tax Reform: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act In addition to the PharMEDium worthless stock deduction, the Company recognized other discrete tax benefits primarily resulting from the CARES Act. The Company's September 30, 2020 Consolidated Balance Sheet includes a net current income tax receivable balance of 488.4 million primarily In August 2020, the Canton of Bern enacted tax reforms to comply with requirements imposed by earlier Swiss federal tax reforms, which are As a result of the aforementioned Swiss tax law change and ruling, the Company recorded a 582.4 million gross deferred tax asset, which was offset in In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company recorded a 6.6 billion legal accrual in connection with litigation relating to the distribution of Prior to the 2017 Tax Act, the Company intended to indefinitely reinvest its foreign cash in foreign investments and foreign operations. After further Table of Contents billion as of September 30, 2020, 2.3 billion of which is considered permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to estimate the taxes that would be due if such earnings were to be repatriated in the future. amounts. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax liabilities (assets) are as follows: potential tax benefits from federal net operating loss carryforwards, which expire in 1 to 17 years, 201.2 million of potential tax benefits from state net operating loss carryforwards and 58.9 million of potential tax benefits from foreign net operating loss carryforwards, which have varying expiration dates. The Company had 12.8 million of tax credit carryforwards and 2.1 million in foreign alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards. result of this assessment, valuation allowances have been recorded on certain deferred tax assets. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, the Company increased the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets by 212.0 million and 0.3 million, respectively. The increase in the valuation allowance in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 was primarily due to the valuation allowance associated with the deferred tax asset established in connection with Swiss Tax Reform (see above). exercise of employee stock options and lapses of restricted stock units were recorded in Income Tax (Benefit) Expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The tax benefits recognized in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of amounts that may arise in future periods. 2018, respectively. currently undergoing a U.S. federal income tax audit for fiscal year 2018 and certain state and local income tax audits for various years. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2016. The Company believes it has adequate tax reserves to cover potential federal, state or foreign tax exposures. positions and the benefits recognized in the Company's financial statements, of 498.3 million and 124.2 million, respectively ( 455.5 million and 95.0 million, net of federal tax benefit, respectively). If September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Inventories 1,309,815 1,293,075 Property and equipment 94,521 143,851 Goodwill and other intangible assets 613,123 709,015 Right-of-use assets (Note 12) 113,220 Other 1,888 1,892 Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (263,171) (318,868) Allowance for doubtful accounts (20,051) (22,544) Accrued expenses (21,284) (33,312) Accrued litigation liability (1,078,555) Employee and retiree benefits (13,891) (12,420) Goodwill and other intangible assets (582,406) Lease liabilities (Note 12) (121,182) Share-based compensation (38,914) (39,961) Other (79,916) (60,215) Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets 411,648 199,682 Gross deferred tax liabilities 2,132,567 2,147,833 Gross deferred tax assets (2,219,370) (487,320) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance (1,807,722) (287,638) Net deferred tax liabilities 324,845 1,860,195 Deferred income taxes reflect the future tax consequences of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting The following tax net operating loss and credit carryforward information is presented as of September 30, 2020. The Company had 12.4 million of The Company assesses the available positive and negative evidence to determine whether deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized. As a In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 tax benefits of 3.9 million, 7.9 million and 22.7 million, respectively, related to the Income tax payments, net of refunds, were 139.4 million, 117.7 million, and 104.0 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states and foreign jurisdictions. The Company is As of September 30, 2020 and 2019, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits, defined as the aggregate tax effect of differences between tax return Table of Contents recognized in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, 437.2 million and 76.8 million, respectively, of these benefits would have reduced income tax expense and the effective tax rate. As of September 30, 2020 and 2019, included in the unrecognized tax benefits are 19.9 million and 18.6 million of interest and penalties, respectively, which the Company records in Income Tax (Benefit) Expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. September 2018, the Company made a payment of 625.0 million, plus interest, to resolve this litigation, and it was determined that a portion of the settlement was deductible. Accordingly, the Company reduced its unrecognized tax benefit by 10.3 million and 224.9 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Included in the additions of unrecognized tax benefits in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 is 371.5 million for an unrecognized tax benefit related to the 6.6 billion legal accrual for litigation related to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications, as disclosed in Note 14. As of September 30, 2020, a settlement has not been reached, and, therefore, the Company applied significant judgment in estimating the ultimate amount of the opioid litigation settlement that would be deductible for U.S. federal and state purposes. In estimating the amount that would ultimately be deductible, the Company considered prior U.S. tax case law, the amount and character of the damages sought in the opioid litigation, the inherent uncertainty related to litigation of this nature and magnitude, and other relevant factors. While the Company believes that its estimate of the uncertain tax benefit appropriately reflects these considerations, it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefit recorded as of September 30, 2020 may be revised in future periods as the settlement with the various plaintiffs is finalized. During the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that state tax audit resolutions and the expiration of statutes of limitations could result in a reduction of unrecognized tax benefits by approximately 13.9 million. Note 6. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Unrecognized tax benefits at beginning of period 105,657 98,124 323,869 Unrecognized tax benefits at end of period 478,351 105,657 98,124 (in thousands) Goodwill as of September 30, 2018 4,852,775 1,811,497 6,664,272 Goodwill as of September 30, 2019 4,852,775 1,852,732 6,705,507 Goodwill as of September 30, 2020 4,852,775 1,853,944 6,706,719 Additions of tax positions of the current year 385,797 18,819 2,804 Additions to tax positions of the prior years 5,599 751 558 Reductions of tax positions of the prior years (6,480) (10,317) (224,878) Settlements with taxing authorities (1,847) Expiration of statutes of limitations (12,222) (1,720) (2,382) Goodwill recognized in connection with acquisitions 43,418 43,418 Foreign currency translation (2,183) (2,183) Foreign currency translation 1,212 1,212 A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, for the periods indicated is as follows: In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, the Company recorded a reserve associated with civil litigation that was considered to be non-deductible. In The following is a summary of the changes in the carrying value of goodwill, by reportable segment, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020 and Distribution Services Other Total Pharmaceutical Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets is estimated to be 101.9 million in fiscal 2021, 100.3 million in fiscal 2022, 98.8 million in fiscal 2023, 97.4 million in fiscal 2024, 96.6 million in 2025, and 705.8 million thereafter. Note 7. Debt expire in September 2024, with a syndicate of lenders. Interest on borrowings under the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility accrues at specified rates based upon the Company's debt rating and ranges from 70 basis points to 112.5 basis points over CDOR LIBOR EURIBOR Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee, as applicable (91 basis points over CDOR LIBOR EURIBOR Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee as of September 30, 2020) and from 0 basis points to 12.5 basis points over the alternate base rate and Canadian prime rate, as applicable. The Company pays facility fees to maintain the availability under the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility at specified rates based on its debt rating, ranging from 5 basis points to 12.5 basis points, annually, of the total commitment (9 basis points as of September 30, 2020). The Company may choose to repay or reduce its commitments under the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility at any time. The Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants, including compliance with a financial leverage ratio test, as well as others that impose limitations on, among other things, indebtedness of subsidiaries and asset sales, with which the Company was compliant as of September 30, 2020. The opioid litigation accrual discussed in Note 14 has not and is not expected to have an impact on the Company's compliance with its debt covenants. September 30, 2020 September 30, 2019 (dollars in thousands) Indefinite-lived trade names 685,312 685,312 685,324 685,324 Finite-lived: Customer relationships 13 years 1,671,888 (565,372) 1,106,516 1,931,212 (489,471) 1,441,741 Total other intangible assets 2,567,594 (681,487) 1,886,107 2,888,057 (593,221) 2,294,836 September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Revolving credit note Term loan due October 2020 399,982 399,778 Overdraft facility due 2021 ( 30,000) 32,573 Receivables securitization facility due 2022 350,000 350,000 Multi-currency revolving credit facility due 2024 500,000, 3.50% senior notes due 2021 498,908 500,000, 3.40% senior notes due 2024 498,232 497,744 500,000, 3.25% senior notes due 2025 496,990 496,311 750,000, 3.45% senior notes due 2027 743,940 743,099 500,000, 2.80% senior notes due 2030 494,045 500,000, 4.25% senior notes due 2045 494,730 494,514 500,000, 4.30% senior notes due 2047 492,755 492,488 Nonrecourse debt 148,846 167,477 Less AmerisourceBergen Corporation current portion 399,982 32,573 Less nonrecourse current portion 101,277 106,439 Trade names and other 14 years 210,394 (116,115) 94,279 271,521 (103,750) 167,771 Total debt 4,119,520 4,172,892 Total, net of current portion 3,618,261 4,033,880 Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility The following is a summary of other intangible assets: Amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets was 110.9 million, 167.4 million, and 181.2 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, Debt consisted of the following: The Company has a 1.4 billion multi-currency senior unsecured revolving credit facility ("Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility"), is scheduled to Weighted Average Remaining Useful Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Carrying Amount Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Carrying Amount Table of Contents billion at any one time. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed from time to time. The maturities on the notes will vary, but may not exceed 365 days from the date of issuance. The notes will bear interest, if interest bearing, or will be sold at a discount from their face amounts. The commercial paper program does not increase the Company's borrowing capacity as it is fully backed by the Company's Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program as of September 30, 2020 and 2019. 2022. The Company has available to it an accordion feature whereby the commitment on the Receivables Securitization Facility may be increased by up to 250 million, subject to lender approval, for seasonal needs during the December and March quarters. Interest rates are based on prevailing market rates for short-term commercial paper or LIBOR, plus a program fee. The Company pays a customary unused fee at prevailing market rates, annually, to maintain the availability under the Receivables Securitization Facility. revolving basis certain accounts receivable to Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned special purpose entity, which in turn sells a percentage ownership interest in the receivables to financial institutions and commercial paper conduits sponsored by financial institutions. AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation is the servicer of the accounts receivable under the Receivables Securitization Facility. As sold receivables are collected, additional receivables may be sold up to the maximum amount available under the facility. The facility is a financing vehicle utilized by the Company because it generally offers an attractive interest rate relative to other financing sources. The Company securitizes its trade accounts, which are generally non-interest bearing, in transactions that are accounted for as borrowings. The Receivables Securitization Facility contains similar covenants to the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility, with which the Company was compliant as of September 30, 2020. Credit Note provides the Company with the ability to request short-term unsecured revolving credit loans from time to time in a principal amount not to exceed 75 million. The Revolving Credit Note may be decreased or terminated by the bank or the Company at any time without prior notice. The Company also has a 30 million uncommitted U.K. overdraft facility ("Overdraft Facility"), which expires in February 2021, to fund short-term normal trading cycle fluctuations related to its MWI business. Term Loan"), which matured and was repaid in October 2020. principal amount and have an effective yield of 2.81%. Interest on the 2030 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears, commencing on November 15, 2020. The 2030 Notes rank pari passu to the Company's other senior notes, the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility, the Revolving Credit Note, the and Overdraft Facility. made a 21.4 million prepayment premium in connection with this early retirement. notes due December 15, 2047 (the "2047 Notes"). The 2027 Notes were sold at 99.76% of the principal amount and have an effective yield of 3.48%. The 2047 Notes were sold at 99.51% of the principal amount and have an effective yield of 4.33%. Interest on the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears and commenced on June 15, 2018. The 2027 and 2047 Notes rank pari passu to the Company's other senior notes, the Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility, the Revolving Credit Note, the Overdraft Facility, and the October 2018 Term Loan. Commercial Paper Program Receivables Securitization Facility Revolving Credit Note and Overdraft Facility Term Loans Senior Notes The Company has a commercial paper program whereby it may from time to time issue short-term promissory notes in an aggregate amount of up to 1.4 The Company has a 1,450 million receivables securitization facility ("Receivables Securitization Facility"), which is scheduled to expire in September In connection with the Receivables Securitization Facility, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and a specialty distribution subsidiary sell on a The Company has an uncommitted, unsecured line of credit available to it pursuant to a revolving credit note ("Revolving Credit Note"). The Revolving In October 2018, the Company refinanced 400 million of outstanding Term Loans by issuing a new 400 million variable-rate term loan ("October 2018 In May 2020, the Company issued 500 million of 2.80% senior notes due May 15, 2030 (the "2030 Notes"). The 2030 Notes were sold at 99.71% of the The Company used the proceeds from the 2030 Notes to finance the early retirement of the 500 million of 3.50% senior notes that were due in 2021 and In December 2017, the Company issued 750 million of 3.45% senior notes due December 15, 2027 (the "2027 Notes") and 500 million of 4.30% senior Table of Contents The Company used the proceeds from the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes to finance the early retirement of the 400 million of 4.875% senior notes that were due in 2019, including the payment of a 22.3 million prepayment premium, and to finance the acquisition of H.D. Smith, which was completed in January 2018 (see Note 2). discounts to the principal amounts and, therefore, have effective yields that are greater than the stated interest rates in the table above. Costs incurred in connection with the issuance of the Notes were deferred and are being amortized over the terms of the Notes. The indentures governing the Notes contain restrictions and covenants, which include limitations on additional indebtedness distributions to stockholders the repurchase of stock and the making of other restricted payments issuance of preferred stock creation of certain liens transactions with subsidiaries and other affiliates and certain corporate acts such as mergers, consolidations, and the sale of substantially all assets. An additional covenant requires compliance with a financial leverage ratio test. The Company was compliant with all covenants as of September 30, 2020. Nonrecourse debt is comprised of short-term and long-term debt belonging to the Brazil subsidiaries and is repaid solely from the Brazil subsidiaries' cash flows and such debt agreements provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts, and cash flows of the Brazil subsidiaries. fiscal 2024, 500.0 million in fiscal 2025, and 2.3 billion thereafter. million, respectively. Consolidated Statements of Operations, were 6.4 million, 7.1 million, and 7.7 million, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Note 8. Stockholders' Equity and Weighted Average Common Shares Outstanding 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value 0.01 per share (the "preferred stock"). preferences and relative, participating, optional, or other special rights and qualifications, limitations, or restrictions. Except as required by law, or as otherwise provided by the board of directors of the Company, the holders of preferred stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to notice of meetings of stockholders. Holders of preferred stock will be entitled to receive, when declared by the board of directors, out of legally available funds, dividends at the rates fixed by the board of directors for the respective series of preferred stock, and no more, before any dividends will be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, on common stock with respect to the same dividend period. No shares of preferred stock have been issued as of September 30, 2020. other purposes as provided by law. Subject to the rights of holders of the Company's preferred stock, holders of common stock are entitled to receive ratably on a per share basis such dividends and other distributions in cash, stock, or property of the Company as may be declared by the board of directors from time to time out of the legally available assets or funds of the Company. The opioid litigation accrual discussed in Note 14 has not and is not expected to impact the Company's ability to pay dividends. Nonrecourse Debt Other Information The senior notes are collectively referred to as the "Notes." Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears. The Notes were sold at small Scheduled future principal payments of debt are 493.1 million in fiscal 2021, 383.9 million in fiscal 2022, 8.0 million in fiscal 2023, 503.7 million in Interest paid on the above indebtedness during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was 150.7 million, 167.4 million, and 162.1 Total amortization of financing fees and the accretion of original issue discounts, which are recorded as components of Interest Expense, Net on the The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 600,000,000 shares of common stock, par value 0.01 per share (the "common stock"), and The board of directors is authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of preferred stock in one or more series with various designations and The holders of the Company's common stock are entitled to one vote per share and have the exclusive right to vote for the board of directors and for all Table of Contents outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, the Company purchased 7.7 million shares of its common stock for a total of 663.1 million, which included 24.0 million of September 2018 purchases that cash settled in October 2018. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, the Company purchased 1.4 million shares of its common stock for a total of 125.8 million, which excluded 24.0 million of September 2018 purchases that cash settled in October 2018, to complete its authorization under this program. outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, the Company purchased 6.7 million shares of its common stock for a total of 538.9 million under this program, which included 14.8 million of September 2019 purchases that cash settled in October 2019. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, the Company purchased 4.9 million shares of its common stock for a total of 405.6 million, which excluded 14.8 million of September 2019 purchases that cash settled in October 2019. As of September 30, 2020, the Company had 55.5 million of availability under this program. outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. common stock outstanding during the periods presented. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to AmerisourceBergen Corporation by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding, plus the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock units during the periods presented. 4.2 million, 4.6 million, and 3.2 million, respectively. Note 9. Related Party Transactions various agreements and arrangements with WBA, including a pharmaceutical distribution agreement pursuant to which the Company distributes pharmaceutical products to WBA and an agreement that provides the Company the ability to access favorable economic pricing and generic products through a generic purchasing services arrangement with Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH. Both of these agreements expire in 2026. September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The Company's receivable from WBA, net of incentives, was 6.6 billion and 6.1 billion as of September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Weighted average common shares outstanding - basic 204,783 210,165 217,872 Weighted average common shares outstanding - diluted 204,783 211,840 220,336 September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 Pension and postretirement adjustments (5,761) (5,344) Foreign currency translation (103,043) (107,252) Other (26) 631 Effect of dilutive securities - stock options and restricted stock units 1,675 2,464 Total accumulated other comprehensive loss (108,830) (111,965) Common Shares Outstanding The following illustrates the components of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, net of income taxes: In November 2016, the Company's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program allowing the Company to purchase up to 1.0 billion of its In October 2018, the Company's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program allowing the Company to purchase up to 1.0 billion of its In May 2020, the Company's board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program allowing the Company to purchase up to 500 million of its Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to AmerisourceBergen Corporation by the weighted average number of shares of The following illustrates the components of diluted weighted average shares outstanding: The potentially dilutive stock options and restricted stock units that were antidilutive for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were WBA owns more than 10% of the Company's outstanding common stock and is, therefore, considered a related party. The Company operates under Revenue from the various agreements and arrangements with WBA was 63.1 billion, 60.3 billion, and 54.7 billion in the fiscal years ended Table of Contents Note 10. Retirement and Other Benefit Plans administration of the Company's retirement and other benefit plans to its Benefits Committee, an internal committee, comprised of senior finance, human resources, and legal executives. The Benefits Committee is responsible for the investment options under the Company's savings plans, as well as performance of the investment advisers and plan administrators. certain hourly employees. Eligible participants may contribute to the plan from 1% to 50% of their regular compensation before taxes. Effective January 1, 2017, the Company contributed 1.00 for each 1.00 invested by the participant up to the first 3% of the participant's salary. Effective January 1, 2019, the Company contributes 1.00 for each 1.00 invested by the participant up to the first 3% of the participant's salary and 0.50 for each additional 1.00 invested by the participant of up to an additional 2% of salary. An additional discretionary contribution, in an amount not to exceed the limits established by the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC"), may also be made depending upon the Company's performance. Based on the Company's performance in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized an expense for discretionary contributions to the Plan in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018. All contributions are invested at the direction of the employee in one or more funds. All contributions vest immediately except for the discretionary contributions made by the Company, which vest in full after five years of credited service. management, including all of the Company's executive officers. Effective January 1, 2017, this plan provided eligible participants with an annual amount equal to 3% of the participant's total cash compensation to the extent that his or her compensation exceeds the annual compensation limit established by Section 401(a) (17) of the IRC. Effective January 1, 2019, this plan provides eligible participants with an annual amount equal to 4% of the participant's total cash compensation to the extent that his or her compensation exceeds the annual compensation limit established by Section 401(a) (17) of the IRC. million, and 37.9 million, respectively. common stock are authorized for issuance, allows eligible officers, directors, and key management employees to defer a portion of their annual compensation. The amount deferred may be allocated by the employee to cash, mutual funds, or stock credits. Stock credits, including dividend equivalents, are equal to the full and fractional number of shares of common stock that could be purchased with the participant's compensation allocated to stock credits based upon the average of closing prices of common stock during each month, plus, at the discretion of the board of directors, up to one-half of a share of common stock for each full share credited. Stock credit distributions are made in shares of common stock. No shares of common stock have been issued under the deferred compensation plan through September 30, 2020. The Company's liability relating to its deferred compensation plan as of September 30, 2020 and 2019 was 31.1 million and 28.0 million, respectively. Note 11. Share-Based Compensation employees at a price not less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date the option is granted. Option terms and vesting periods are determined at the date of grant by the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. Employee options generally vest ratably, in equal amounts, over a four-year service period and expire in seven years. The Company's non-employee director stock option plans provide for the granting of nonqualified stock options to acquire shares of common stock to non-employee directors at the fair market value of the common stock on the date of the grant. Non-employee director options vest ratably, in equal amounts, over a three-year service period and expire in ten years. Non-employee director options have not been granted since February 2011. Defined Contribution Plans Deferred Compensation Plan Stock Options The Company sponsors various retirement benefit plans and a deferred compensation plan covering eligible employees. The Compensation and Succession Planning Committee ("Compensation Committee") of the Company's board of directors has delegated the The Company sponsors the AmerisourceBergen Employee Investment Plan (the "Plan"), which is a defined contribution 401(k) plan covering salaried and The Company also sponsors the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Benefit Restoration Plan. This unfunded plan provides benefits to selected key Costs of the defined contribution plans charged to expense for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were 45.9 million, 51.0 The Company sponsors the AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2001 Deferred Compensation Plan. This unfunded plan, under which 2.96 million shares of The Company's employee stock option plans provide for the granting of incentive and nonqualified stock options to acquire shares of common stock to Table of Contents granted under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). forfeitures. The Company estimates the fair values of option grants using a binomial option pricing model. Expected volatilities are based upon the historical volatility of the Company's common stock and other factors, such as implied market volatility. The Company uses historical exercise data, taking into consideration the optionees' ages at grant date, to estimate the terms for which the options are expected to be outstanding. The Company anticipates that it not will grant any stock options in fiscal 2021. The risk-free rates during the terms of such options are based upon the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 14.16, respectively. The following weighted average assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of options granted: 22.6 million, respectively. 116.7 million, respectively. presented below: million, respectively. Expected future compensation expense relating to the 2.1 million nonvested options outstanding as of September 30, 2020 is 10.3 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2020 2019 2018 Risk-free interest rate 1.66% 2.91% 1.89% Expected dividend yield 1.86% 1.79% 1.96% Volatility of common stock 28.17% 27.67% 26.54% Expected life of the options 3.79 years 3.77 years 3.76 years (in thousands, except exercise price and contractual term) Options Outstanding as of September 30, 2019 7,659 83 4 years 35,319 Outstanding as of September 30, 2020 5,559 86 3 years 62,770 Exercisable as of September 30, 2020 3,430 88 2 years 33,107 Expected to vest after September 30, 2020 2,072 83 5 years 29,032 (in thousands, except grant date fair value) Options Nonvested as of September 30, 2019 3,265 16 Nonvested as of September 30, 2020 2,129 16 Granted 383 86 Exercised (2,242) 76 Forfeited (166) 83 Expired (75) 95 Granted 383 17 Vested (1,353) 16 Forfeited (166) 16 As of September 30, 2020, employee and non-employee director stock options and restricted stock units for an additional 9.2 million shares may be The estimated fair value of options granted is expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards and are net of estimated The weighted average fair values of the options granted during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were 16.61, 18.60, and During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized stock option expense of 13.0 million, 21.0 million, and A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information for its option plans for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 is presented The intrinsic value of stock option exercises during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was 42.6 million, 51.2 million, and A summary of the status of the Company's nonvested options as of September 30, 2020 and changes during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 is During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the total fair values of options vested were 21.3 million, 22.7 million, and 25.8 Weighted Average Exercise Remaining Contractual Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Weighted Average Aggregate Intrinsic Table of Contents determined by the product of the number of shares granted and the grant date market price of the Company's common stock. The estimated fair value of restricted stock units is expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized restricted stock unit expense of 39.8 million, 29.2 million, and 26.8 million, respectively. September 30, 2020 are presented below: and 15.8 million, respectively. Expected future compensation expense relating to the 1.5 million restricted stock units outstanding as of September 30, 2020 is 43.4 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.4 years. Performance stock units vest at the end of a three-year performance period based upon achievement of specific performance goals. Based upon the extent to which the targets are achieved, vested shares for awards granted prior to fiscal 2018 may range from 0% to 150% of the target award amount. For awards granted beginning in fiscal 2018, vested shares may range from 0% to 200% of the target award amount. The fair value of performance stock units is determined by the grant date market price of the Company's common stock. Compensation expense associated with nonvested performance stock units is recognized over the requisite service period and is dependent on the Company's periodic assessment of the probability of the targets being achieved and its estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately be issued. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized performance stock expense of 21.5 million, 8.5 million, and 12.8 million, respectively. September 30, 2020 is presented below (based upon target award amounts). Note 12. Leases leases. Certain leases include escalation clauses. (in thousands, except grant date fair value) Nonvested as of September 30, 2019 1,222 81 Nonvested as of September 30, 2020 1,512 85 (in thousands, except grant date fair value) Nonvested as of September 30, 2019 283 84 Nonvested as of September 30, 2020 288 88 Granted 760 86 Vested (346) 76 Forfeited (124) 84 Granted 150 86 Vested (139) 78 Forfeited (6) 89 Restricted Stock Units Performance Stock Units Restricted stock units vest in full after three years. The estimated fair value of restricted stock units under the Company's restricted stock unit plans is A summary of the status of the Company's nonvested restricted stock units as of September 30, 2020 and changes during the fiscal year ended During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the total fair values of restricted stock units vested were 26.4 million, 14.5 million, Performance stock units are granted to certain executive employees under the Plan and represent common stock potentially issuable in the future. A summary of the status of the Company's nonvested performance stock units as of September 30, 2020 and changes during the fiscal year ended Shares that vested over the three-year performance period ended September 30, 2020 were distributed to employees in November 2020. The Company has long-term leases for facilities and equipment. In the normal course of business, leases are generally renewed or replaced by other Performance Restricted Stock Units Stock Units Grant Date Fair Value Grant Date Fair Value Weighted Average Weighted Average Table of Contents (in thousands) Operating lease cost 118,144 Short-term lease cost 4,632 Variable lease cost 17,814 (in thousands, except for lease term and discount rate) September 30, 2020 Right of use assets Other assets 443,522 Lease liabilities Accrued expenses and other 92,587 Other long-term liabilities 385,507 Weighted-average remaining lease term 6.50 years Weighted-average discount rate 3.72% (in thousands) Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities Operating lease cash payments 115,028 Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease liabilities New operating leases 61,779 Leases recognized upon adoption of ASC 842 526,281 Total lease cost 140,590 Total lease liabilities 478,094 The following illustrates the components of lease cost for the period presented: The Company recorded rental expense of 108.9 million and 114.9 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The following summarizes balance sheet information related to operating leases: Other cash flow information related to operating leases is as follows: Fiscal year ended September Fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 Table of Contents September 30, 2019 were as follows: Note 13. Employee Severance, Litigation, and Other decision to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business. Employee severance in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 included costs primarily related to PharMEDium restructuring activities, position eliminations resulting from our business transformation efforts and the integration of H.D. Smith, and restructuring activities related to our consulting business. Employee severance in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 included costs primarily related to position eliminations resulting from the Company's business transformation efforts and restructuring activities related to our consulting business. Payments Due by Fiscal Year (in thousands) As of September 30, 2020 2021 117,680 2022 113,632 2023 102,564 2024 93,464 2025 83,789 Thereafter 376,396 Total future undiscounted lease payments 887,525 Less: Future payments for leases that have not yet commenced (308,431) Less: Imputed interest (101,000) The Company has certain leases that it has executed for which it does not control the underlying assets therefore, lease liabilities and ROU assets were not recorded on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2020. These future commitments primarily relate to the Company's new general corporate and administrative office. Payments Due by Fiscal Year (in thousands) 2020 94,958 22,468 117,426 2021 84,002 29,790 113,792 2022 72,224 36,914 109,138 2023 63,507 35,950 99,457 2024 56,377 35,276 91,653 Thereafter 177,267 270,410 447,677 Represents the portion of future minimum lease payments relating to facility leases where the Company was determined to be the accounting owner (see Note 1). These payments were recognized as reductions to the financing obligation and as interest expense and excluded the future non-cash termination of the financing obligation. (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Employee severance 34,401 34,147 36,694 Litigation and opioid-related costs 6,722,346 185,145 61,527 Acquisition-related deal and integration costs 15,958 43,184 33,912 Business transformation efforts 37,961 55,437 32,963 Other restructuring initiatives (3,359) 12,561 18,424 Total lease liabilities 478,094 Total minimum lease payments 548,335 430,808 979,143 Total employee severance, litigation, and other 6,807,307 330,474 183,520 Future minimum rental payments under noncancellable operating leases were as follows: Under the prior accounting guidance, the future minimum rental payments under noncancellable operating leases and financing obligations as of The following illustrates the charges incurred by the Company relating to Employee Severance, Litigation, and Other for the periods indicated: Employee severance in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 included costs primarily related to position eliminations resulting from the Company's Operating Leases Financing Obligations Total Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Table of Contents net of an income tax benefit) (see Note 14) and legal fees in connection with opioid lawsuits and investigations. Litigation and opioid-related costs in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 consisted of 116.7 million of legal settlements and accruals and 68.5 million of legal fees in connection with opioid lawsuits and investigations. Litigation and opioid-related costs in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 primarily related to opioid lawsuits, investigations, and related initiatives. Acquisition-related deal and integration costs in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 are primarily related to the integration of H.D. Smith. Integration costs primarily included costs to transition servicing legacy H.D. Smith customers to existing company distribution facilities and operating systems. Acquisition-related deal and integration costs in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 were primarily related to the acquisition of H.D. Smith. Business transformation efforts in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were primarily related to costs associated with reorganizing the Company to further align the organization to its customers' needs. The majority of these costs were related to services provided by third-party consultants, including certain technology initiatives. Note 14. Legal Matters and Contingencies investigations, stockholder demands, and other disputes, including antitrust, commercial, product liability, intellectual property, regulatory, employment discrimination, and other matters. Significant damages or penalties may be sought from the Company in some matters, and some matters may require years for the Company to resolve. The Company records a reserve for these matters when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. uncertainty remains with regard to whether such matters will proceed to trial, whether settlements will be reached, and the amount and terms of any such settlements. Outcomes may include settlements in significant amounts that are not currently estimable, limitations on the Company's conduct, the imposition of corporate integrity agreement obligations, consent decrees, and or other civil and criminal penalties. From time to time, the Company is also involved in disputes with its customers, which the Company generally seeks to resolve through commercial negotiations. If negotiations are unsuccessful, the parties may litigate the dispute or otherwise attempt to settle the matter. reasonably estimable. There can be no assurance that the settlement, resolution, or other outcome of one or more matters, including the matters set forth below, during any subsequent reporting period will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or cash flows for that period or on the Company's financial condition. and tribes, have filed lawsuits in various federal, state and other courts against pharmaceutical wholesale distributors (including the Company and certain subsidiaries, such as AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation ("ABDC") and H.D. Smith), pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail chains, medical practices, and physicians relating to the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications. Other lawsuits regarding the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications have been filed by: third-party payors and similar entities hospitals hospital groups and individuals, including cases styled as putative class actions. The lawsuits, which have been and continue to be filed in federal, state, and other courts, generally allege violations of controlled substance laws and various other statutes as well as common law claims, including negligence, public nuisance, and unjust enrichment, and seek equitable relief and monetary damages. An initial group of cases was consolidated for Multidistrict Litigation ("MDL") proceedings before the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio (the "Court") in December 2017. Additional cases have been, and will likely continue to be, transferred to the MDL. Further, in June 2018, the Court granted a motion permitting the United States, through the DOJ, to participate in settlement discussions and as a friend of the Court by providing information to facilitate non-monetary remedies. jurisdictions. In December 2018, the Court issued an order selecting two additional cases for a second bellwether discovery and trial track. In November 2019 and January 2020, the Court filed Suggestions of Opioid Lawsuits and Investigations Litigation and opioid-related costs in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 included costs primarily related to a 6.6 billion legal accrual ( 5.5 billion, Other restructuring initiatives in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 included a 19.1 million gain on the sale of property. A significant number of counties, municipalities, and other governmental entities in a majority of U.S. states and Puerto Rico, as well as numerous states In April 2018, the Court issued an order creating a litigation track, which includes dispositive motion practice, discovery, and trials in certain bellwether In the ordinary course of its business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, administrative proceedings, government subpoenas, government For those matters for which the Company has not recognized a liability, the Company cannot predict the outcome of their impact on the Company as With respect to the specific legal proceedings and claims described below, unless otherwise noted, the amount or range of possible losses is not Table of Contents Remand with the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation that identified four cases filed against the Company, including the two additional bellwether cases, for potential transfer from the MDL back to federal courts in California, Oklahoma, and West Virginia for the completion of discovery, motion practice, and trial. All four cases have now been remanded to those federal district courts and discovery has commenced. The two consolidated cases in West Virginia that were scheduled to commence trial on October 19, 2020 were postponed to January 4, 2021 due to COVID-19. For the California case, the current trial date is October 25, 2021. No trial date has been established for the Oklahoma case, in which the plaintiff is the Cherokee Nation. the two counties against the Company in the first track of the MDL. Pursuant to the settlement, claims against the Company were dismissed with prejudice and the Company made a payment of 66.7 million in December 2019. The Company had previously recorded a charge of 66.7 million in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 within Employee Severance, Litigation and Other in its Statement of Operations and in Accrued Expenses and Other on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. intended to provide a potential framework for a global resolution of the state and local government entity lawsuits in the MDL and in state courts, including cases currently filed and that could be filed. The attorneys general's announcement outlined that the three largest U.S. pharmaceutical distributors would be expected to pay an aggregate amount of up to 18.0 billion over 18 years, of which the Company's portion would be 31%, in addition to the development and participation in a program for free or rebated distribution of opioid-abuse medications for a period of 10 years and the implementation of industry-wide changes to be specified to controlled substance anti-diversion programs. Since that time, the Company has engaged in discussions that include the four attorneys general, as well as other attorneys general, plaintiffs' lawyers representing local governments, and other parties with the objective of reaching potential terms for a global resolution. reach a global settlement of the MDL and related state-court litigation brought by certain state and local governmental entities by the three largest U.S. pharmaceutical distributors of 21.0 billion to be paid over 18 years in which the Company s payment would be 6.5 billion assuming all parties participate. A portion of this amount relating to plaintiff attorney fees would be payable over a shorter time period. The discussions also involve certain changes to the Company's anti-diversion programs. While a global settlement remains subject to contingencies that could impact whether the parties ultimately decide to move forward, the Company believes a global settlement is probable and its loss related thereto can be reasonably estimated as of September 30, 2020. The Company has recorded a charge of 6.6 billion in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 within Employee Severance, Litigation and Other in its Statement of Operations related to the global settlement as well as other opioid-related litigation. The Company currently estimates that 408.0 million will be paid prior to September 30, 2021, which is recorded in Accrued Expenses and Other on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The remaining liability of 6.2 billion is recorded in Accrued Litigation Liability on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. While the Company has accrued its estimated liability for this matter, it is unable to estimate the range of possible loss associated with these opioid litigation matters. Because loss contingencies are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or resolutions can occur, the assessment is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company will regularly review these opioid litigation matters to determine whether its accrual is adequate. The amount of ultimate loss may differ materially from the 6.6 billion accrual. Until such time as a plaintiff participates in a global settlement or otherwise resolves its lawsuit, the Company will continue to litigate and prepare for trial in the cases pending in the MDL, those remanded from the MDL to federal district courts, as well as in state courts where lawsuits have been filed, and intends to continue to vigorously defend itself in all such cases. Since these matters are still developing, the Company is unable to predict the outcome, but the result of these lawsuits could include excessive monetary verdicts and or injunctive relief that may affect the Company's operations. Further, any final settlement among parties may differ materially from the Company's advanced discussions related to global resolution of the MDL and related state-court litigation involving certain state and local governmental entities. the purpose of negotiating and settling with defendants engaged in the nationwide manufacturing, sale, or distribution of opioids. The attorneys subsequently withdrew the motion and refiled an amended motion on July 9, 2019. The Court granted the motion on September 11, 2019 and certain defendants, including ABDC filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On September 24, 2020, the Sixth Circuit reversed the Court's prior order. On October 8, 2020, certain of the plaintiffs filed a petition asking the Sixth Circuit to rehear the matter en banc, which has not yet been decided. Attorney General against a variety of defendants, including the Company, was scheduled to On October 21, 2019, the Company announced an agreement in principle with two Ohio counties, Cuyahoga and Summit, to settle all claims brought by On October 21, 2019, the Attorneys General for North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Texas announced certain proposed settlement terms The Company is currently in advanced discussions, which are ongoing, with the states and various plaintiffs representatives that would be necessary to In June 2019, attorneys for some of the plaintiffs filed a motion proposing a procedure to certify a nationwide "negotiation class" of cities and counties for Notwithstanding the Company's accrual of 6.6 billion, a trial in New York state for cases brought by Nassau and Suffolk Counties and the New York Table of Contents begin on March 20, 2020. The trial is not part of the MDL and has been delayed due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The court has not yet set a new trial date but has expressed an intention to commence trial early in 2021, if possible. A trial in Ohio state court for a case brought by the Ohio Attorney General against ABDC and certain other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors was scheduled to begin trial on October 19, 2020 but has been postponed to March 8, 2021. Several other cases filed in various state courts have trial dates scheduled in 2021 and later, although all such dates are subject to change. may continue to file additional lawsuits or enforcement proceedings. The Company is vigorously defending itself in the pending lawsuits and intends to vigorously defend itself against any threatened lawsuits or enforcement proceedings. regarding the distribution of prescription opioid pain medications from government agencies in other jurisdictions, including certain states. The Company is engaged in discussions with representatives from these government agencies regarding the requests and has been producing responsive documents. The Company cannot predict how these matters would be affected by a global settlement. Office for the District of New Jersey ("USAO-NJ") and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York ("USAO-EDNY"). Those subpoenas request the production of a broad range of documents pertaining to the Company's distribution of controlled substances through its various subsidiaries, including ABDC, and its diversion control programs. The Company has been engaged in discussions with the various U.S. Attorney s Offices, including the Health Care and Government Fraud Unit of the Criminal Division of the USAO-NJ, and has been producing documents in response to the subpoenas. DOJ that was entered by the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on May 22, 2019. As previously disclosed, in late January 2020 the Company decided to permanently exit the PharMEDium compounding business. As a result the Company ceased all commercial operations related to this business as well as all administrative operations other than those needed to complete the shutdown. While PharMEDium has ceased commercial operations, it remains subject to the terms of the Consent Decree and continues to work with the FDA and the DOJ to comply with applicable laws and regulations. to the business of a customer, supplier, or other industry participant. The Company's responses often require time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred. Most of these matters are resolved without incident however, such subpoenas or requests can lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of civil or criminal legal proceedings against the Company and other members of the healthcare industry, as well as to substantial settlements. relating to its activities in connection with billing for products and making returns of potential overpayments to government payers. A filed qui tam complaint related to the investigation was unsealed in April 2019 and the relator filed an amended complaint under seal in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. In December 2019, the government filed a notice that it was declining to intervene. The court ordered that the relator's complaint against the Company, including subsidiaries AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, LLC and U.S. Bio, be unsealed. The relator s complaint alleged violations of the federal False Claims Act and the false claims acts of various states. The relator filed a second amended complaint, removing one state false claims act count. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint and all briefing on the motion was filed with the court on October 9, 2020. Government Enforcement and Related Litigation Matters Subpoenas, Ongoing Investigations, and Other Contingencies Aside from those parties that have already filed suit, other entities, including additional attorneys general s offices, counties, and cities in multiple states, The Company has also received subpoenas, civil investigative demands, and other requests for information, requesting the production of documents On May 17, 2019, PharMEDium reached an agreement on the terms of the Consent Decree with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and the Since July 2017, the Company has received subpoenas from several U.S. Attorney's Offices, including grand jury subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney's From time to time, the Company receives subpoenas or requests for information from various government agencies relating to the Company's business or In January 2017, the Company's subsidiary U.S. Bioservices Corporation ("U.S. Bio") received a subpoena for information from the USAO-EDNY Table of Contents Construction Workers Supplemental Pension Plan (2014 Restatement), Retirement Medical Funding Plan for the St. Paul Electrical Workers, and San Antonio Fire & Police Pension Fund filed a complaint for a purported derivative action in the Delaware Court of Chancery against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors (collectively, "Defendants"). The complaint alleges that the Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by failing to oversee the compliance by certain of the Company's subsidiaries (including the Company's former subsidiary Medical Initiatives, Inc. ("MII")) with federal regulations, allegedly resulting in the payment of fines and penalties in connection with the settlements with the USAO-EDNY in fiscal 2017 and 2018 that resolved claims arising from MII's pre-filled syringe program. In December 2019, Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. After briefing and oral argument, on August 24, 2020 the Delaware Court of Chancery denied Defendants' motion to dismiss. On September 24, 2020, the Board of Directors of the Company established a Special Litigation Committee to conduct an investigation concerning the plaintiffs allegations. On October 28, 2020, the Special Litigation Committee filed a motion to stay the litigation pending completion of its investigation. On November 10, 2020, the Delaware Court of Chancery granted the Special Litigation Committee s motion to stay the litigation. Delaware against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors ( CCAR Defendants ). The complaint alleges claims for breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and unjust enrichment allegedly arising from the Company s controlled substance diversion control programs and violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On July 30, 2020, a group of interested stockholders (the Proposed Intervenors ) filed a motion to intervene and stay the proceedings filed by CCAR Investments, Inc. The CCAR Defendants opposed the motion to intervene and stay on August 13, 2020. CCAR Investments, Inc. also filed an opposition to the motion to intervene and stay. On August 14, 2020, the CCAR Defendants answered the complaint and filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings. On October 13, 2020, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware heard oral arguments on the Proposed Intervenors' motion to intervene and stay the litigation and denied Proposed Intervenors' motion without prejudice. On October 29, 2020 the parties filed a stipulation permitting CCAR Investments, Inc. to file an amended complaint on or before November 20, 2020, and CCAR Defendants shall respond to the amended complaint on or before December 18, 2020. New York State ("NYS") enacted the Opioid Stewardship Act ("OSA"), which went into effect on July 1, 2018. The OSA established an annual 100 million Opioid Stewardship Fund (the "Fund") and requires manufacturers, distributors, and importers licensed in NYS to ratably source the Fund. The ratable share of the assessment for each licensee was to be based upon opioids sold or distributed to or within NYS. In the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, the Company accrued 22.0 million as an estimate of its liability under the OSA for opioids distributed from January 1, 2017 through September 30, 2018 and recognized this reserve in Cost of Goods Sold on its Consolidated Statement of Operations and in Accrued Expenses and Other on its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018. In December 2018, the OSA was ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, and, as a result, the Company reversed the 22.0 million accrual in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018. In September 2020, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court's decision, and, as a result, the Company accrued 14.8 million in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 as it revised its estimated liability for the 2017 and 2018 calendar years. The Company has been in compliance with subsequent legislation passed by NYS regarding sales of prescription opioids for calendar years beginning in 2019. multiple generic drug manufacturers, and also included claims against the Company, H.D. Smith, and other drug distributors and industry participants. The case is filed as a putative class action and plaintiffs purport to represent a class of drug purchasers including other retail pharmacies and healthcare providers. The case has been consolidated for multidistrict litigation proceedings before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The complaint alleges that the Company and others in the industry participated in a conspiracy to fix prices, allocate markets and rig bids regarding generic drugs. In March 2020, the plaintiffs filed a further amended complaint. On July 15, 2020, the Company and other industry participants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. Note 15. Litigation Settlements took improper actions to delay or prevent generic drugs from entering the market. These lawsuits are generally brought as class actions. The Company has not been a named a plaintiff in any of these lawsuits, but has been a member of the direct purchasers' class (i.e., those purchasers who purchase directly from these pharmaceutical manufacturers). None of the lawsuits has gone to trial, but some have settled in the past with the Company receiving proceeds Antitrust Settlements In December 2019, Reliable Pharmacy, together with other retail pharmacies and North Sunflower Medical Center, filed a civil antitrust complaint against Numerous lawsuits have been filed against certain brand pharmaceutical manufacturers alleging that the manufacturer, by itself or in concert with others, On October 11, 2019, Teamsters Local 443 Health Services & Insurance Plan, St. Paul Electrical Construction Pension Plan, St. Paul Electrical On July 17, 2020, CCAR Investments, Inc. filed a complaint for a purported derivative action in the United States District Court for the District of Table of Contents from the settlement funds. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized gains of 9.1 million, 145.9 million, and 35.9 million, respectively, relating to these lawsuits. These gains, which are net of attorney fees and estimated payments due to other parties, were recorded as reductions to cost of goods sold in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. Note 16. Business Segment Information Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment and other operating segments that are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure and, therefore, have been included in Other for the purpose of reportable segment presentation. Other consists of operating segments that focus on global commercialization services and animal health (MWI Animal Health). The operating segments that focus on global commercialization services include AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services ("ABCS") and World Courier. to allocate resources to, and assess the performance of, the Company's operating segments. The CODM does not review assets by operating segment for the purpose of assessing performance or allocating resources. pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. Through a number of operating businesses, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides pharmaceutical distribution (including plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty pharmaceutical products) and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. Additionally, the Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment provides data analytics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. Additionally, it delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. Additionally, MWI offers demand-creating sales force services to manufacturers. ABCS, through a number of operating businesses, provides a full suite of integrated manufacturer services that range from clinical trial support to product post-approval and commercialization support. World Courier, which operates in over 50 countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 1,807,001 1,671,251 1,626,748 Other 400,139 380,660 355,091 Intersegment eliminations (2,693) (659) (609) Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 182,467,189 172,813,537 161,699,343 Total Other 7,525,102 6,868,341 6,332,730 Intersegment eliminations (98,365) (92,757) (92,438) Total segment operating income 2,204,447 2,051,252 1,981,230 MWI Animal Health 4,216,462 3,975,232 3,789,759 Global Commercialization Services 3,308,640 2,893,109 2,542,971 Revenue 189,893,926 179,589,121 167,939,635 The Company is organized based upon the products and services it provides to its customers. The Company's operations are comprised of the The chief operating decision maker ("CODM") of the Company is the Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer of the Company, whose function is The Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name and generic MWI is a leading animal health distribution company in the United States and in the United Kingdom. MWI sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, The following illustrates reportable and operating segment disaggregated revenue as required by ASC 606 for the periods indicated: Intersegment eliminations primarily represent the elimination of certain Pharmaceutical Distribution Services reportable segment sales to MWI. The following illustrates reportable segment operating income information for the periods indicated: Table of Contents PharMEDium remediation costs PharMEDium shutdown costs New York State Opioid Stewardship Act contingent consideration adjustment acquisition-related intangibles amortization employee severance, litigation, and other goodwill impairment and impairment of PharMEDium assets. Segment measures were adjusted in fiscal 2020 to exclude PharMEDium shutdown costs and contingent consideration adjustment as the CODM excludes these costs in the measurement of segment performance. All corporate office expenses are allocated to the operating segment level. The Company incurred remediation costs in connection with the suspended production activities at PharMEDium (see Note 1). These remediation costs are primarily classified in Cost of Goods sold in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company incurred costs in connection with exiting the PharMEDium compounding business. These shutdown costs are primarily classified in Distribution, Selling, and Administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. adjusted its previous estimate of contingent consideration related to the purchase price of one of its prior business acquisitions. The Company recorded a 13.7 million gain on the sale of an equity investment in Other (Income) Loss in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. The Company recorded a 30.0 million impairment of a non-customer note receivable related to a start-up venture in Other (Income) Loss in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Total segment operating income 2,204,447 2,051,252 1,981,230 Gain from antitrust litigation settlements 9,076 145,872 35,938 LIFO (expense) credit (7,422) 22,544 (67,324) PharMEDium remediation costs (16,165) (69,423) (66,204) PharMEDium shutdown costs (43,206) New York State Opioid Stewardship Act (14,800) 22,000 (22,000) Contingent consideration adjustment 12,153 Acquisition-related intangibles amortization (110,478) (159,848) (174,751) Employee severance, litigation, and other (6,807,307) (330,474) (183,520) Goodwill impairment (59,684) Impairment of PharMEDium assets (361,652) (570,000) Other (income) loss (1,581) (12,952) 25,469 Interest expense, net 137,883 157,769 174,699 Loss on consolidation of equity investments 42,328 Loss on early retirement of debt 22,175 23,766 Operating (loss) income (5,135,354) 1,111,923 1,443,685 (Loss) income before income taxes (5,293,831) 967,106 1,177,423 The following reconciles total segment operating income to income before income taxes for the periods indicated: Segment operating income is evaluated by the CODM of the Company and excludes gain from antitrust litigation settlements LIFO (expense) credit One of the Company's non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, Profarma, which the Company consolidates based on certain governance rights (see Note 3), Table of Contents The following illustrates depreciation and amortization by reportable segment for the periods indicated: deferred financing costs and other debt-related items, which are included in interest expense, net. Note 17. Fair Value of Financial Instruments approximate fair value based upon the relatively short-term nature of these financial instruments. Within Cash and Cash Equivalents, the Company had 2,548.0 million and 1,552.0 million of investments in money market accounts as of September 30, 2020 and 2019. The fair value of the money market accounts was determined based upon unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets, otherwise known as Level 1 inputs. million, respectively. The recorded amount of long-term debt and the corresponding fair value as of September 30, 2019 were 4,033.9 million and 4,158.4 million, respectively. The fair value of long-term debt was determined based upon inputs other than quoted prices, otherwise known as Level 2 inputs. Note 18. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) (a) The first, second, and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 include gains from antitrust litigation settlements of 8.5 million, 0.1 (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 203,062 232,735 225,608 Other 77,522 69,824 64,768 Acquisition-related intangibles amortization 110,478 159,848 174,751 (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Pharmaceutical Distribution Services 201,144 210,161 190,191 Other 168,533 100,061 146,220 Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2020 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Revenue 47,864,742 47,417,639 45,366,777 49,244,768 189,893,926 Gross profit (a) 1,231,214 1,388,107 1,225,716 1,346,847 5,191,884 Distribution, selling, and administrative expenses Employee severance, litigation, and other (b) 39,309 67,732 58,585 6,641,681 6,807,307 Impairment of PharMEDium assets 138,000 223,652 361,652 Operating income (loss) 263,437 309,515 404,831 (6,113,137) (5,135,354) Net income (loss) (c) 186,568 971,111 287,268 (4,844,505) (3,399,558) Net income (loss) attributable to AmerisourceBergen Earnings per share operations: Total depreciation and amortization 391,062 462,407 465,127 Total capital expenditures 369,677 310,222 336,411 Basic 0.91 4.68 1.42 (23.74) (16.65) Diluted 0.90 4.64 1.41 (23.74) (16.65) depreciation and amortization 790,468 787,208 762,300 818,303 3,158,279 Corporation (c) 187,640 960,277 289,439 (4,846,072) (3,408,716)  million, and 0.5 million, respectively. The first, second, and third quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 include LIFO expense of 13.3 million, 23.9 million, and 6.1 million. The fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 includes LIFO credit of 35.8 million. The first quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 includes PharMEDium remediation costs of 7.1 million. The second and third quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 include PharMEDium shutdown costs of 5.0 million and 0.4 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization includes depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and intangible assets, but excludes amortization of The following illustrates capital expenditures by reportable segment for the periods indicated: The recorded amounts of the Company's cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable as of September 30, 2020 and 2019 The recorded amount of long-term debt (see Note 7) and the corresponding fair value as of September 30, 2020 were 3,618.3 million and 4,026.4 Second Quarter Third Quarter Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Fiscal Year Ended September 30, Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year Table of Contents (b) The fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 includes a 6.6 billion legal expense accrual in connection with opioid lawsuits. (c) The second quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 includes discrete tax benefits of 741.0 million primarily related to the permanent shutdown of (a) The first, second, third, and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 include gains from antitrust litigation settlements of 87.3 million, (b) The first quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 includes a 37.0 million income tax benefit adjustment to the one-time transition tax on historical Note 19. Subsequent Event dividend of 0.44 per share, payable on November 30, 2020 to shareholders of record on November 16, 2020. Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2019 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Revenue 45,392,452 43,319,602 45,239,265 45,637,802 179,589,121 Gross profit (a) 1,297,580 1,424,756 1,231,239 1,184,737 5,138,312 Distribution, selling, and administrative expenses Employee severance, litigation, and other 40,672 55,389 60,006 174,407 330,474 Impairment of PharMEDium assets 570,000 570,000 Operating income 477,823 47,565 406,694 179,841 1,111,923 Net income (b) 391,753 28,073 302,002 132,307 854,135 Net income attributable to AmerisourceBergen Corporation Earnings per share operations:  Basic 1.86 0.13 1.44 0.64 4.07 Diluted 1.84 0.13 1.43 0.63 4.04 depreciation and amortization 779,085 751,802 764,539 830,489 3,125,915 (b) 393,652 27,135 301,959 132,619 855,365 the PharMEDium business. The third quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 includes a loss on the early retirement of debt of 22.2 million. The fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 includes tax benefits of 1.1 billion relating to the 6.6 billion legal expense accrual in connection with opioid lawsuits, 360.7 million relating to Switzerland tax reform, and a 20.4 million adjustment to the discrete tax benefits previously recognized primarily attributable to the income tax deductions resulting from the permanent shutdown of the PharMEDium business. 52.0 million, 3.5 million, and 3.1 million, respectively. The first, second, and third quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 include LIFO credits of 3.0 million, 66.8 million, and 9.9 million, respectively. The fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 includes LIFO expense of 57.2 million. The first, second, third, and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 include PharMEDium remediation costs of 17.9 million, 12.3 million, 11.7 million, and 6.7 million, respectively. The first quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 includes a 22.0 million reversal of a previous estimate of a liability under the New York State Opioid Stewardship Act. foreign earnings and profits through December 31, 2017. The second quarter of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 includes a gain on the sale of an equity investment of 13.7 million. In November 2020, the Company's board of directors increased the quarterly dividend paid on common stock by 5% and declared a regular quarterly cash Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year Table of Contents ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. These controls and procedures also are intended to ensure that information required to be disclosed in such reports is accumulated and communicated to management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a 15(e) and 15d 15(e) under the Exchange Act) and have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective for their intended purposes as of the end of the period covered by this report. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, those controls. internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. AmerisourceBergen's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013). Based on management's assessment and those criteria, management has concluded that AmerisourceBergen's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2020. AmerisourceBergen's internal control over financial reporting. This report is set forth below. The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are intended to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the Company's reports The Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with the participation of other members of the Company's management, have There were no changes during the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2020 in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that materially The management of AmerisourceBergen Corporation ("AmerisourceBergen" or the "Company") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company and that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of AmerisourceBergen's management assessed the effectiveness of AmerisourceBergen's internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2020. AmerisourceBergen's independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company's assets MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Table of Contents To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of AmerisourceBergen Corporation Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited AmerisourceBergen Corporation and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2020, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the 2020 consolidated financial statements of the Company and our report dated November 19, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for Opinion The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania November 19, 2020 s Ernst & Young LLP REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM Table of Contents ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Proxy Statement"), including information appearing under "Proxy Statement Highlights - Director Nominees and Board Summary," "Corporate Governance and Related Matters," "Audit Committee Matters," and "Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports," is incorporated herein by reference. We will file the 2021 Proxy Statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. Controller. A copy of this Code of Ethics is posted on our Internet website, which is investor.amerisourcebergen.com. Any amendment to, or waiver from, any provision of this Code of Ethics will be posted on our Internet website. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Compensation and Related Matters" in the 2021 Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Compensation Plan Information" in the 2021 Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Person Transactions" in the 2021 Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES incorporated herein by reference. Information appearing in our Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2021 Information with respect to Executive Officers of the Company appears in Part I of this report. We adopted a Code of Ethics for Designated Senior Officers that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Corporate Information contained in the 2021 Proxy Statement, including information appearing under "Corporate Governance and Related Matters" and "Executive Information contained in the 2021 Proxy Statement, including information appearing under "Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock" and "Equity Information contained in the 2021 Proxy Statement, including information appearing under "Corporate Governance and Related Matters" and "Related Information contained in the 2021 Proxy Statement, including information appearing under "Audit Committee Matters" in the 2021 Proxy Statement, is Table of Contents ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) (1) and (2) List of Financial Statements and Schedules. under the related instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted. Financial Statements: The following consolidated financial statements are submitted in response to Item 15(a)(1): All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 47 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2020 and 2019 50 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018 51 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 53 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019, and 2018 54 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 55 Financial Statement Schedule: The following financial statement schedule is submitted in response to Item 15(a)(2): Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 97 Table of Contents (a) (3) List of Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description 4.80 Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2017, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 3.450% Senior Notes due 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2017). 4.90 Form of 3.450% Senior Notes due 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2017 between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 3.450% Senior Notes due 2027, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2017). 4.10 Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2017, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 4.300% Senior Notes due 2047 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2017). 4.11 Form of 4.300% Senior Notes due 2047 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2017 between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 4.300% Senior Notes due 2047, which is filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2017). 4.12 Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 19, 2020, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 2.800% Senior Notes due 2030 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 19, 2020). 4.13 Form of 2.800% Senior Notes due 2030 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 19, 2020 between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 2.800% Senior Notes due 2030, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 19, 2020). 4.14 Description of the Registrant's Securities 10.1 Framework Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2013, by and among the Registrant, Walgreen Co. and Alliance Boots GmbH (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2013). 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated as of March 4, 2010, as amended by the Certificate of Amendment dated as of February 17, 2011, the Certificate of Amendment dated as of March 6, 2014 and the Certificate of Amendment dated as of March 2, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2017). 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, dated as of August 13, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 18, 2020). 4.1 Indenture, dated as of November 19, 2009, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2009). 4.2 Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2014, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to Registrant's 3.400% Senior Notes due 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 22, 2014). 4.3 Form of 3.400% Senior Notes due 2024 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2014, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 3.400% Senior Notes due 2024, which is filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 22, 2014). 4.4 Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2015, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 3.250% Senior Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2015). 4.5 Form of 3.250% Senior Notes due 2025 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2015 between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 3.250% Senior Notes due 2025, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2015). 4.6 Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2015, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 4.250% Senior Notes due 2045 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2015). 4.7 Form of 4.250% Senior Notes due 2045 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 20, 2015 between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, related to the Registrant's 4.250% Senior Notes due 2045, which is filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2015). Table of Contents Exhibit Number Description 10.10 AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2014). 10.11 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to Non-Employee Director under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on form 8-K filed on March 10, 2014). 10.12 Form of 2014 Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2014). 10.13 Form of 2014 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2014). 10.14 Form of 2014 Performance Share Award Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2014). 10.15 Form of 2019 Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018). 10.16 Form of 2019 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018). 10.17 Form of 2019 Performance Share Award Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018). 10.18 AmerisourceBergen Corporation Financial Recoupment Policy (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018). 10.19 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of January 11, 2019, between the Company and Steven H. Collis (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 11, 2019). 10.20 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of January 11, 2019, between the Company and John G. Chou (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 11, 2019). 10.21 Form of Employment Agreement applicable to executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 11, 2019. 10.3 AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2001 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan, as amended as of November 9, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005). 10.4 AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2001 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of November 24, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008). 10.6 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement to Employee under the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013). 10.7 AmerisourceBergen Corporation Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated on March 2, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018). 10.8 AmerisourceBergen Corporation Compensation Policy for Non-Employee Directors, effective as of March 3, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 9, 2016). 10.9 AmerisourceBergen Corporation Benefit Restoration Plan, as amended and restated as of December 1, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2013). 10.2 Shareholders Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2013, by and among the Registrant, Walgreen Co. and Alliance Boots GmbH (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2013). AmerisourceBergen Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2011(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 25, 2013). Table of Contents Exhibit Number Description 10.22 Receivables Sale Agreement between AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as originator, and AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as buyer, dated as of July 10, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010). 10.23 First Amendment to Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2010, by and between AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as buyer, and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation as originator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 5, 2010). 10.24 Second Amendment to Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2011, between AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as buyer, and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as originator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2011). 10.25 Third Amendment to Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of October 28, 2011, between AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as buyer, and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as originator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2011). 10.26 Omnibus Amendment, dated November 4, 2015 to (i) the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2010, as amended, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as Seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as Servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as Administrator and (ii) the Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of July 10, 2003, as amended, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation as Buyer, and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as originator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 4, 2015). 10.27 Fifth Amendment to Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2016, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as buyer, and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as originator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2016). 10.28 Amended and Restated Receivables Sale Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2020, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as buyer, and AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and ASD Specialty Healthcare, LLC, as originators (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 19, 2020). 10.29 Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2010, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the various purchaser groups party thereto, and Bank of America, National Association, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 5, 2010). 10.30 First Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2011, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, and Bank of America, National Association, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2011). 10.31 Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 28, 2011, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, and Bank of America, National Association, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2011). 10.32 Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2012, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, and Bank of America, National Association, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2012). 10.33 Fourth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2013, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on form 8-K filed on January 17, 2013). 10.34 Fifth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2013, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 3, 2013). 10.35 Sixth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 7, 2013, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, Market Street Funding LLC, as assignor, PNC Bank, National Association, as assignee, and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, LTD., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 10, 2013). Table of Contents Exhibit Number Description 10.36 Seventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 17, 2014, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto and the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as Administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 22, 2014). 10.37 Eighth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 5, 2014, by and among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the purchaser agents and purchasers party thereto, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 8, 2014). 10.38 Tenth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2016, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto, Working Capital Management Co., LP, as assignor, Advantage Asset Securitization Corp., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., as assignee, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2016). 10.39 Eleventh Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2016, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 2016). 10.40 Twelfth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2017, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017). 10.41 Thirteenth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2018, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto, and MUFG Bank, Ltd. (f k a The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.), as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2018). 10.42 Fourteenth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2019, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto, and MUFG Bank, Ltd., as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2019). 10.43 Fifteenth Amendment to Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2020, among AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as seller, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, as servicer, the Purchaser Agents and Purchasers party thereto, and MUFG Bank, Ltd., as administrator (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 19, 2020). 10.44 Amended and Restated Performance Undertaking, dated as of December 2, 2004, executed by the Registrant, as performance guarantor, in favor of AmeriSource Receivables Financial Corporation, as recipient (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011). 10.45 First Amendment to Amended and Restated Performance Undertaking Agreement, dated as of April 28, 2011, executed by the Registrant, as performance guarantor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2011). 10.46 Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Performance Undertaking Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2017, executed by the Registrant, as performance guarantor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017). 10.47 Third Amendment to Amended and Restated Performance Undertaking Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2019, executed by AmerisourceBergen Corporation, as performance guarantor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2019). 10.48 Second Amended and Restated Performance Undertaking Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2020, executed by AmerisourceBergen Corporation, as performance guarantor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 19, 2020). 10.49 Eighth Amendment and Restatement Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2019, among AmerisourceBergen Corporation, the borrowing subsidiaries party thereto, the lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2019). Table of Contents  Each marked exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan, contract or arrangement in which a director or executive officer of the Registrant ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY Not applicable. participates or has participated. Exhibit Number Description 10.50 Revolving Credit Note, dated as of March 8, 2013, between the Registrant and Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013). 10.51 First Amendment to Line of Credit Note, dated as of April 4, 2014, between the Registrant and Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2014). 10.52 Term Credit Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2018, among AmerisourceBergen Corporation, the lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2018). 10.53 First Amendment to the Term Credit Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2019, among AmerisourceBergen Corporation, the lenders party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2019). 31.1 Rule 13a-14(a) 15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 31.2 Rule 13a-14(a) 15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 101 Financial statements from the Annual Report on Form 10-K of AmerisourceBergen Corporation for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, formatted in Inline Extensible Business Reporting Language (iXBRL): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101). 21 Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 23 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 32 Section 1350 Certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Table of Contents signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated. AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION Date: November 19, 2020 By: s STEVEN H. COLLIS Steven H. Collis Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer s STEVEN H. COLLIS Steven H. Collis s JAMES F. CLEARY James F. Cleary s LAZARUS KRIKORIAN Lazarus Krikorian s Ornella Barra s D. MARK DURCAN D. Mark Durcan s RICHARD W. GOCHNAUER Richard W. Gochnauer s LON R. GREENBERG Lon R. Greenberg Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below as of November 19, 2020 by the following Signature Title SIGNATURES Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) (Principal Executive Officer) (Principal Financial Officer) Table of Contents s JANE E. HENNEY, M.D. Jane E. Henney, M.D. s KATHLEEN W. HYLE Kathleen W. Hyle s MICHAEL J. LONG Michael J. Long s HENRY W. MCGEE Henry W. McGee s DENNIS M. NALLY Dennis M. Nally Signature Title Lead Independent Director Table of Contents  (1) Represents the provision for returns and doubtful accounts. (2) Represents reductions to the returns allowance and accounts receivable written off during year, net of recoveries. (3) Includes an allowance for doubtful accounts for long-term accounts receivable within Other Assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets of 981 thousand and (In thousands) Year Ended September 30, 2020 Allowances for returns and doubtful accounts 1,223,887 4,019,830 (3,826,409) 1,417,308 Year Ended September 30, 2019 Allowances for returns and doubtful accounts 1,049,901 3,720,642 (3,546,656) 1,223,887 Year Ended September 30, 2018 Allowances for returns and doubtful accounts 1,068,251 3,397,562 (3,415,912) 1,049,901 13,568 thousand as of September 30, 2019, and 2018, respectively. AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Balance at Beginning of Period Charged to Costs and Expenses (1) Deductions- Describe (2) Balance at Period (3) The following is a list of significant subsidiaries of the Registrant. AmerisourceBergen International Holdings Inc. Delaware Subsidiary Jurisdiction of Incorporation Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation Delaware AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation Delaware AmerisourceBergen Global Holdings GmbH Switzerland AmerisourceBergen Global Manufacturer Services GmbH Switzerland AmerisourceBergen Group AG Switzerland AmerisourceBergen Luxembourg S.a.r.L. Luxembourg AmerisourceBergen Services Corporation Delaware AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, LLC Delaware ASD Specialty Healthcare, LLC California BPL Group, LLC Delaware BPLH Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland International Oncology Network Solutions, Inc. Delaware MWI Veterinary Supply, Co. Idaho MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc. Delaware World Courier Group S. r.l. Luxembourg SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT Exhibit 21 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements: of our reports dated November 19, 2020, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and subsidiaries for the year ended September 30, 2020. s Ernst & Young LLP Philadelphia, Pennsylvania November 19, 2020 (1) Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-228489) of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, (2) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-86012) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Employee Investment Plan, (3) Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 333-88230, 333-110431, and 333-140470) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2002 Management Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, (4) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101042) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2001 Deferred Compensation Plan and the AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2001 Restricted Stock Plan, (5) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101043) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2001 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan, (6) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-159924) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Management Incentive Plan, (7) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-173982) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Corporation 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and (8) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-194325) pertaining to the AmerisourceBergen Corporation Omnibus Incentive Plan Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Exhibit 23 I, Steven H. Collis, certify that: statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this Report financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this Report Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have: Registrant's auditors and the audit committee of Registrant's board of directors: Date: November 19, 2020 ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this Report is being prepared supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this Report based on such evaluation and fiscal quarter (the Registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting and likely to adversely affect the Registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and control over financial reporting. 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Report") of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") 2. Based on my knowledge, this Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this Report, fairly present in all material respects the 4. The Registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in 5. The Registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this Report our conclusions about the (d) Disclosed in this Report any change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant's most recent (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant's internal Rule 13a-14(a) 15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer s Steven H. Collis Steven H. Collis Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Exhibit 31.1 I, James F. Cleary, certify that: statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this Report financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this Report Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have: Registrant's auditors and the audit committee of Registrant's board of directors: Date: November 19, 2020 ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this Report is being prepared supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this Report based on such evaluation and fiscal quarter (the Registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting and likely to adversely affect the Registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and control over financial reporting. 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Report") of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Registrant") 2. Based on my knowledge, this Report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this Report, fairly present in all material respects the 4. The Registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in 5. The Registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this Report our conclusions about the (d) Disclosed in this Report any change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant's most recent (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant's internal Rule 13a-14(a) 15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer s James F. Cleary James F. Cleary Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Exhibit 31.2 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Steven H. Collis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge: (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. November 19, 2020 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, James F. Cleary, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge: November 19, 2020 Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In connection with the Annual Report of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and In connection with the Annual Report of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to AmerisourceBergen Corporation and will be retained by the This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and shall not, except to the extent required by the Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer s Steven H. Collis Steven H. Collis Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer s James F. Cleary James F. Cleary Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Exhibit 32